Reposting from my other answer: Austin Li's answer to What is the best way to prepare for a competitive exam (CAT/GRE/GMAT) in 1 year without paying any tuition?The quick and dirty guide for the GRE: Raise your score by 10 - 20 in a week!Note: I'm writing this because my girlfriend might be taking the GRE in a few months and I wanted to write a guide for her. I'm a lazy prick. I don't like to study, and despite buying the Barron's, the Kaplan, and the Official guide, I only studied about 2% of the content in a week. I started on the diagnostic test and got 160 quant, 150 verbal. On the real test I got a 164 quant, 163 verbal, and 5.5 AWA. The AWA is a joke. Read on and I'll show you how to nail it. If you're reading this and taking the test in a week, most of these tips will still help. This is probably the most helpful strategy. It keeps your time management spot on, and it frees your mind from the stress of remembering your thoughts when the mental fatigue starts getting to you. Before the test starts and in-between test sections, you are given a few minutes of time. Use all of this time to prepare. Lay out the scrap paper in landscape and use a pen to make a deductive logic grid. Don't bother with a ruler making pretty lines, just make sure you do it and label the question numbers in an easy way to read.The problems usually have 4 to 5 multiple choice options. If you're unsure of the answer, you will usually be able to tell 2 to 3 choices to be wrong if you know the math and the vocabulary words, and a remainder of 2 choices that you're unsure about/forgot the meaning/couldn't figure out the final steps of the math.Grid: Note that on the verbal section, do not fill in the question number as there will be some questions of multiple blanks that you need to each fill correctly to gain credit (Killer!), so label those questions "1 a, 1 b, 1 c".Take at most roughly a minute for each question. Since the new revision it is less important to ensure you get the first few questions right. If you see an answer that is wrong, mark an "X" on to the grid for that choice. If you see an answer that you are unsure about between two, mark an "O" on the grid.On the verbal section where a question has multiple blanks to fill, you will probably end up with a question that you are not sure about on almost all the choices, of which you need to chain the "O"s together to see which one makes sense. There are only 6 combinations on 3 blanks, each with 2 unsure choices. Eliminate from those and you'll end up with 2 to 3 choices, and will raise your probability of success from 1/27 (3 choices on 3 blanks) to about 1/2.5 (2 choices on 3 blanks, with 3-4 of 6 combinations eliminated)Circle the question numbers that you are unsure of. When you're done with the section, you can zoom back quickly and identify the question you need to check and redo.ALWAYS PICK AN ANSWER. A guess still counts to points!Buy the flash cards and sleep with them. If you've already bought them but are not sleeping with them, start doing so now. Bring them around with you to dinner, to gaming, to socializing and on and on. Break the pile of flash cards into loops of 50 cards. Study through one loop each day, and move on to the next. On the two days after you've finished a loop, do a written test with the flashcard loop only showing the word but no definition. In seven days you'll have memorized 250 words for the GRE. Always pick from flashcards of a "most frequent" list to cover high probability words.The AWA is a joke. Lots of people lose unnecessary points on it because of cultural practices and because of the personality of writing they present that not all test assessors will like. It's a human reading your essay, not a robot, don't buy the argument that they don't make mistakes and don't judge your personal writing style.ANALYZE AN ISSUEFirst, take a look at the "Analyze an Issue" brief from the website:Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the statement and explain your reasoningfor the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider ways in which the statement might or might not hold true and explain how these considerations shape your position.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the recommendation and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, describe specific circumstances in which adopting the recommendation would or would not be advantageous and explain how these examples shape your position.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the claim. In developing and supporting your position, be sure to address the most compelling reasons and/or examples that could be used to challenge your position.Write a response in which you discuss which view more closely aligns with your own position and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should address both of the views presented.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the claim and the reason on which that claim is based.Write a response in which you discuss your views on the policy and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider the possible consequences of implementing the policy and explain how these consequences shape your position.Notice how all of them point out whether you agree or disagree, and why. Your first sentence in this section should always state the extent you agree or disagree. The second sentence should always highlight the major reasons why you agree or disagree, and ideally should be in Serial commaformat. "... agree/disagree because of AAA, BBB, and CCC"From those points, you have your paragraphs. Each paragraph should start with defining your exact argument, and be followed by a second sentence that explains how your argument connects/enhances/weakens the issue at hand. Pick arguments that build upon each other and in the summary paragraph, summarize them, and briefly restate your position.ANALYZE AN ARGUMENTTake a look at the model answer on the official site:Analyze an ArgumentWhen you look at the model answer here's the results it gives to these three important questions:Is the claim valid or not? Yes, it may be a valid claim to increase the funding. [Take note that it's very important to separate the validity of the claim and the validity of the reasoning behind the claim.]Is the reasoning behind the claim valid or not? No, the survey may be wrong in its scope, validity, and relevance. [There is almost always a numerical piece of data in the passage that could be attacked or could have its assumptions pointed out.]Are there problems in the logical structure that undermine the argument, but not the claim? Yes, the cause of the smell and low quality of the water has not been established to be able to be "cleaned" effectively, and that no causal link has been established between water quality and usage has been established. [This type of logical structure usually is slippery slope logic. Read below.]Note that the farther you deviate from the evidence at hand and spin your own theories, the more assumptions you make and the weaker your argument becomes. If you look at the score 5 and score 4 essays, their logical attacks are less well explained and less grounded on to the evidence and structure of the argument.Pay attention to Slippery slope structures like the example. A slippery slope generally builds on a long chain of seemingly reasonable assumptions to arrive at unreasonable or poorly supported arguments. Take this example of a mom warning a child not to goto a party, because a party might have bad kids, that might befriend the child in question, and over time might introduce the child to drugs or alcohol as they grow up, that might develop into an addiction, that might then ruin high school grades, then destroy chances at college admissions, and ultimately fail to secure a well paying job, then ruin the child's life. From each jump the logical leap may seem small, but in the end the argument becomes going to party = life ruined. Attacking the statistical validity, the logical connection between one argument and another, the assumptions made on the evidence that determines whether it is circumstantial or irrefutable become the major points of the essay. Avoid the urge to impress the writers by using fancy words and complex grammatical structures. Use the KISS principle and write in straightforward wording to allow your argument to come out with a strong tone.

When I started preparing for GRE, I realized that though I was quite comfortable with Quantitative Section,  I was a total noob at Verbal, be it vocabulary or reading comprehension. I had precisely three months to prepare. I surfed through the net and found that the New GRE was "context intensive" unlike its older version which was "vocabulary intensive". In other words, it was your "depth of knowledge" in vocabulary and not the breadth that mattered, which meant I could cut short my target vocabulary bank from 4000 to 1500 but with a caveat that I had to learn those 1500 words inside out, their usage in context of the sentence, which included not just primary, but secondary and tertiary meanings.Note: Below is the study pattern that I followed and it worked for me, but this is not the only way, you can always modify it as per your style. This is more focused on verbal section as I was fairly comfortable in the quantitative section from the beginning. I hope it proves helpful to you as well.1. First Month: ConditioningAs Norman Lewis puts it, if the Vocabulary Bank is Calcium, then extensive reading is Vitamin D. There is no point in taking more and more calcium if you don't have sufficient Vitamin D to absorb it.First Three Weeks: Work out (don't just read, work it out with pencil) "Word Power Made Easy" by Norman Lewis. It has 45 sessions. Finish 15 sessions per week, roughly 1.5-2 hours per day.In parallel, start reading one newspaper EXTENSIVELY. Read it inside out (of course there are some sections which are just not your type, you can leave out those 2-3 pages). I started reading Economic Times because I had an inclination for business news (and with all those graphs and pie charts, it inadvertently prepared me for Data Interpretation as well) Fourth Week: Time for some extra Vitamin D. Pick up one novel (preferably a motivational one) and read it voraciously, just finish it off in one week and don't forget to mark the new words that you come across while reading. Initially, it will pose some difficulty to those who are not into reading. I myself had a bitter start but a good novel will absorb you into it as you proceed. (I read The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand, it took me 12 days and yes, it really pumped me up)Meanwhile, continue with the newspaper DAILY.So, it's been one month now. Don't expect anything from yourself yet. By this time, you have a cursory vocabulary bank of 400-500 words and through extensive reading of newspaper and a novel, you have conditioned yourself for the next phase.2. Second Month: Hitting the Bull's Eye=>The typical "GRE" way Now it's time to learn some real vocabulary, for the next three weeks, don't think of anything else but vocabulary. There are three different sources for high and medium frequency words that I'm going to mention below, but the good thing is, most of the words from these word lists overlap.First Three Weeks:Sign up at Vocabulary.com. Select the Vocabulary.com Top 1000 and click on "Learn this list" which offers objective type practice questions. It's a good habit to practice these words after signing in as they keep a track of your learning curve and offer you the practice questions accordingly.Join the New GRE group on Facebook. It's the most active GRE group on Facebook right now. It will help you in two ways:Members post random GRE questions on this group, which will give you a rough idea of how the questions are going to be while you are still in the Vocabulary building phase.Secondly, it's a good source to prepare for quantitative section. As long as you are able to solve the math problems being posted over there, you can care-freely concentrate on your verbal preparation. You'll get access to some really USEFUL links.The next source of vocabulary that I referred to was 1500 Words from http://Majortests.com , shuffle between this and http://Vocabulary.com.The last but the "first" source is again, the word list at the end of "Word Power Made Easy". Meanwhile, don't forget to read the newspaper EXTENSIVELY, especially the Editorials.Now you are at a stage where you have a "faint" vocabulary word bank of 1500+ words, an extensive reading experience of a daily newspaper, a high-speed read novel and a fair idea of the level of verbal and quantitative GRE questions through Facebook group. Enough with the "Vocabulary Only" days, now it's time for some real action !!Fourth WeekTime to pick up the GRE preparations books: Now that you have enough vocabulary and reading habit in your armory, its time to use this raw material and shape it to fit the GRE examination pattern. Start with Official GRE by ETS. It will give you a clear idea of the pattern of the exam, but that's all its useful for. Don't expect it to be sufficient for practice problems. This week, just do (work out) this book, read news paper and nothing else. Also, keep a check on your performance while attempting sample problems in this book and identify your weakness: Is it RC or multiple blanks/synonyms3. Third month: Reach the top speed, end the preparation like a sprint racerFirst Two WeeksPick up Manhattan 5 lb, practice ALL the verbal exercises, don't leave a single question unanswered. Frankly speaking, once you are in momentum, these questions are not time consuming, either you know the answer, which is great, or you don't, which you can just look up in the answer key quickly. I stumbled upon the maths section of 5 lb, I liked it, it had all those problems which, though simple, are little tricky and trap you with wrong answer. I practiced quant from this book which prepared me to be ready with these kind of tricky questions. Then you can go through Kaplan GRE practice book, its a small e-book, wouldn't take much time but having finished two books will give you immense confidence and speed in problem solving. Another "thin" book that I quickly skimmed through (I'm telling you, once you are in momentum, these books will pass through in a fly) 1014 Practive Questions for the new GRE-The Princeton Review. You can also pick up books 7 and 8 from Manhattan GRE 1-8 series for RC and Sentence completion respectively.Last Two WeeksIts time to pick up what we have been letting off till now: AWA and Exam Practice Tests. For AWA, I'd read samples from Manhattan AWA. I really like the way they break down the technique to answer the AWA section, which makes it really easy to structure your thought. For more random RC practice with a timer, just visit Codecoax.com and it will pop up an RC for you. Lastly, practice as much full length exams as you can with TIMER. Practice atleast 5. For full length tests, here are some links that you can visit:20 online tests800Score's Free Full Length Revised GRE TestMyGRETutor's 4 free Full Length TestsKaplan's Free Practice Test Options for the GREPrinceton Review: Free GRE Full length testIts easy ! Its doable !! Just do it !!!Originally answered here: How to score 330+ in GRE in 3 months ?

Whee! GRE is the one exam I had a lot of fun preparing for.One year is plenty of time, so you're good to do. How you should go about preparing for the GRE depends a lot on where you stand right now.The Quantitative Reasoning (Math) part of the exam is fairly easy for anyone with an engineering background, so that can be tackled by solving a few practice tests to ensure that your speed and accuracy is adequate. Aim at getting ALL questions correct.The Verbal Reasoning part of the exam is where most Indian students need plenty of preparation. It's important to understand here that the VR part doesn't intend to test just your vocabulary, per se. Rather, it intends to test your reasoning and analytical skills, and vocabulary is just tool. Through comprehension exercises and other questions, the aim is to see how well you can analyze arguments and draw conclusions from a given text.Vocabulary Try and gauge your vocabulary by attempting a few tests given in the Barrons GRE book. If you feel it's decent (you know at least 50% of the words), your job is rather easy. In my case, I could attempt about 65%. If you feel it's lacking, there is this red book (now it is white) called Word Power Made Easy by Norman Lewis that a lot of students seem to love. I have only read it occasionally, so I don't have a strong opinion about it, but its etymology approach is useful, especially if you've never seen language that way. It is good for vocabulary, but you'd better ignore its grammar advice.Try to at least complete the word lists given in Barrons. It's not exhaustive, but it's a fairly good collection. There are about 3500 words in there, and it will take you a fair amount of time if your vocabulary isn't great to begin with. Expect to spend about 3-4 hours per word list.Apart from this, you can check out online resources tooReasoningThis will come largely with practice. As you work on the vocabulary, keep solving practice tests and analyze how many of your errors were not because of vocabulary issues but because of logical / reasoning issues. These are the ones you need to work on. You'll get better with practice, and will also improve your vocabulary alongside. As I said earlier, the GRE is not a test of raw vocabulary. Instead of merely mugging up words, try to put them in context. Get a feel of how those words are used, where those words are used. Get a sense of whether a word is used in an approving sense or a disapproving sense. Try to appreciate the nuances between words that appear very similar in meaning but are still not interchangeable.This is what will help you more, both in life and in the examination.Closing NotesIf you prepare well and prepare properly, you'd come off with a much stronger vocabulary and reasoning ability. This is a useful asset in academia, as well as in everyday life.Students who start with relatively low vocabulary and then ramp up significantly during GRE preparation often suffer from what I call obnoxious-word-usage-syndrome, where an over-enthusiastic attempt to use the newly acquired vocabulary results in prose that is not only pathetic but that often makes little sense. This can be easily remedied if you spend time in understanding exactly how / where a particular word is used (as mentioned above)

The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is used by schools in most English speaking countries for admission into the Graduate program. It assesses the verbal, quantitative and writing skills of the student.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution.  So here are some tips to help you.1.  Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most.  Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2.  Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser.  Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3.  Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous.  When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4.  Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay. 5.  Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.Source: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE

GRE has three main components namely verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning and analytical writing. Your entire preparation process should revolve around acquiring good skills on these areas and mastering the concepts required.Some of the things which you can do to get the required concept clarity areQuantitative reasoning:The best part about GRE Math is the absence of things which most of us hate in Math - The integral calculus, trigonometry and other complicated stuff. GRE Math is mostly things which you learned in junior/ high school - Things like interger properties, word problems (rate of work, speed, probability etc) which can be solved with basic common sense. Not much beyond that.What makes the GRE so tricky is the interpretation of the questions part. Once you figure out what the question is asking, the math involved is definitely easier than what you faced in your high school. In fact, it is more fun as you don't need to write down each and every step and show your teacher on how you arrived at your answer. You just need to pick an answer. In short, the math section just tests your ability to reason with numbers.Verbal reasoning:Verbal reasoning section is even more simple with there being only 3 question types - text completion, critical reasoning and reading comprehension. The preparation process should be fully focused on knowing specific strategies for cracking these questions rather than generic preparation advocated.For example, use of flash cards for learning new words was very helpful in the earlier format of the test where antonyms and analogies were asked and there was more emphasis on rote learning of words. But, the current format focuses more on understanding not only the literal meaning of the words but also the metaphorical use of the word based on the context. For example, while the word 'opaque' literally means 'not transparent', it could also mean 'difficult to interpret or understand' if used in the right context. Similarly, there are no questions asking you to identify any grammar errors. Grammar is important only for your essay writing section. Hence, it makes sense not to rely on these old fashioned methods advocated by coaching institutes but to just keep focusing on the 3 question types.Analytical writing:Analytical writing section asks you to write 2 essays - one on "The Issue" and the other on "The Argument". The major difference here is in the first essay you are asked to take a stand on a complex issue whereas in the second essay you are asked to dissect the logic behind an already taken stand or position.How do I prepare for this? You just need to follow a simple routine and you are guaranteed to score well in this section.Choose - Structure - Write - Compare - Improve - ChooseStep 1: You choose a topic where you already have some well written sample essays. You can pick these up either in the official site or from the many blogs available online.Step 2: Come up with a structure and an outline.Step 3: Write an essay by developing the structure and the outline.Step 4: Compare it with other essays written on the topic.Step 5: Rewrite your essay to improve it.Step 6: Go to Step 1.--------------------If you do all of the above, you are going to definitely score well on your GRE.Check out Magnus Prep's GRE Program if you are looking for some great mentors to help with your GRE preparation.Cheers!

I’ve been tutoring the GRE for a number of years. The below is inspired by the many sessions I’ve had with students, many of whom have gone on to do very well on the GRE. A lot of it is also specific to the revised GRE, which made its debut in August 2011.  1. Use official material When preparing for the GRE, no questions prepare you better than the ones written by ETS, which is responsible for writing the questions you will see test day. As much as possible, stick to the questions in the Official Guide to the GRE so you can wrap your mind around how the test writers want you to reason.  You may not think that it makes that much of a difference, but many publishers out there have questions that require you to make certain leaps of logic—or employ questionable logic—that you will never have to do on the actual test. Then there is the fact that many questions simply aren’t as difficult or nuanced as the questions you’ll see test day. This is a problem many students encounter when using Kaplan—you are essentially taking a dumbed down version of the GRE, with often poorly constructed questions to boot.  2. Take practice tests There is no better way to prepare for test day than actually taking a mock test. You will train yourself to sit for three plus hours staring at a screen, as you are pummeled by an onslaught of GRE problems.  If possible, use only the official tests, found in the Official Guide to the New GRE. There are four such tests—two that comes with the book, and two that are computer-based and come with the CD that is part of the book. Stagger these out  over the four weeks you are prepping, so that there are no fewer than five days between tests and no more than ten days. If you are studying longer, you might also want to consider Manhattan GRE tests (see below).  Finally, practice tests will allow you to better assess your strengths and weaknesses, and help inform your study sessions in between tests.  3. Focus on weaknesses Make sure not to get carried away developing those areas in which you already excel. For instance, if you are generally strong at math problem solving questions, but if you dislike Data Interpretation (that’s the section with all the graphs), then the last thing you want to do is avoid that section. Instead make it a priority to become confident and effective at all questions relating to Data Interpretation.   4. Use the best material While official material is clearly the best prep out there, it doesn’t necessarily provide the most effective strategies. You may want to take a look at Princeton Review for helpful big picture strategies. As for specific strategies for almost every aspect of the GRE—from permutations to convoluted paragraph arguments—the Manhattan GRE books (MGRE) are the best. MGRE also has six practice tests that mimic the actual test very well (though this more so with math than with verbal). For more practice on the online format, Magoosh also offers questions that are similar to--and often more difficult--than those found on the actual test. (I should probably mention that I work for Magoosh :))  Of course there is a lot of material out there that should be avoided, especially in terms of practice content. Here is a helpful breakdown: 2013 GRE Book Reviews







Reposting from my other answer: Austin Li's answer to What is the best way to prepare for a competitive exam (CAT/GRE/GMAT) in 1 year without paying any tuition?The quick and dirty guide for the GRE: Raise your score by 10 - 20 in a week!Note: I'm writing this because my girlfriend might be taking the GRE in a few months and I wanted to write a guide for her. I'm a lazy prick. I don't like to study, and despite buying the Barron's, the Kaplan, and the Official guide, I only studied about 2% of the content in a week. I started on the diagnostic test and got 160 quant, 150 verbal. On the real test I got a 164 quant, 163 verbal, and 5.5 AWA. The AWA is a joke. Read on and I'll show you how to nail it. If you're reading this and taking the test in a week, most of these tips will still help. This is probably the most helpful strategy. It keeps your time management spot on, and it frees your mind from the stress of remembering your thoughts when the mental fatigue starts getting to you. Before the test starts and in-between test sections, you are given a few minutes of time. Use all of this time to prepare. Lay out the scrap paper in landscape and use a pen to make a deductive logic grid. Don't bother with a ruler making pretty lines, just make sure you do it and label the question numbers in an easy way to read.The problems usually have 4 to 5 multiple choice options. If you're unsure of the answer, you will usually be able to tell 2 to 3 choices to be wrong if you know the math and the vocabulary words, and a remainder of 2 choices that you're unsure about/forgot the meaning/couldn't figure out the final steps of the math.Grid: Note that on the verbal section, do not fill in the question number as there will be some questions of multiple blanks that you need to each fill correctly to gain credit (Killer!), so label those questions "1 a, 1 b, 1 c".Take at most roughly a minute for each question. Since the new revision it is less important to ensure you get the first few questions right. If you see an answer that is wrong, mark an "X" on to the grid for that choice. If you see an answer that you are unsure about between two, mark an "O" on the grid.On the verbal section where a question has multiple blanks to fill, you will probably end up with a question that you are not sure about on almost all the choices, of which you need to chain the "O"s together to see which one makes sense. There are only 6 combinations on 3 blanks, each with 2 unsure choices. Eliminate from those and you'll end up with 2 to 3 choices, and will raise your probability of success from 1/27 (3 choices on 3 blanks) to about 1/2.5 (2 choices on 3 blanks, with 3-4 of 6 combinations eliminated)Circle the question numbers that you are unsure of. When you're done with the section, you can zoom back quickly and identify the question you need to check and redo.ALWAYS PICK AN ANSWER. A guess still counts to points!Buy the flash cards and sleep with them. If you've already bought them but are not sleeping with them, start doing so now. Bring them around with you to dinner, to gaming, to socializing and on and on. Break the pile of flash cards into loops of 50 cards. Study through one loop each day, and move on to the next. On the two days after you've finished a loop, do a written test with the flashcard loop only showing the word but no definition. In seven days you'll have memorized 250 words for the GRE. Always pick from flashcards of a "most frequent" list to cover high probability words.The AWA is a joke. Lots of people lose unnecessary points on it because of cultural practices and because of the personality of writing they present that not all test assessors will like. It's a human reading your essay, not a robot, don't buy the argument that they don't make mistakes and don't judge your personal writing style.ANALYZE AN ISSUEFirst, take a look at the "Analyze an Issue" brief from the website:Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the statement and explain your reasoningfor the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider ways in which the statement might or might not hold true and explain how these considerations shape your position.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the recommendation and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, describe specific circumstances in which adopting the recommendation would or would not be advantageous and explain how these examples shape your position.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the claim. In developing and supporting your position, be sure to address the most compelling reasons and/or examples that could be used to challenge your position.Write a response in which you discuss which view more closely aligns with your own position and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should address both of the views presented.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the claim and the reason on which that claim is based.Write a response in which you discuss your views on the policy and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider the possible consequences of implementing the policy and explain how these consequences shape your position.Notice how all of them point out whether you agree or disagree, and why. Your first sentence in this section should always state the extent you agree or disagree. The second sentence should always highlight the major reasons why you agree or disagree, and ideally should be in Serial commaformat. "... agree/disagree because of AAA, BBB, and CCC"From those points, you have your paragraphs. Each paragraph should start with defining your exact argument, and be followed by a second sentence that explains how your argument connects/enhances/weakens the issue at hand. Pick arguments that build upon each other and in the summary paragraph, summarize them, and briefly restate your position.ANALYZE AN ARGUMENTTake a look at the model answer on the official site:Analyze an ArgumentWhen you look at the model answer here's the results it gives to these three important questions:Is the claim valid or not? Yes, it may be a valid claim to increase the funding. [Take note that it's very important to separate the validity of the claim and the validity of the reasoning behind the claim.]Is the reasoning behind the claim valid or not? No, the survey may be wrong in its scope, validity, and relevance. [There is almost always a numerical piece of data in the passage that could be attacked or could have its assumptions pointed out.]Are there problems in the logical structure that undermine the argument, but not the claim? Yes, the cause of the smell and low quality of the water has not been established to be able to be "cleaned" effectively, and that no causal link has been established between water quality and usage has been established. [This type of logical structure usually is slippery slope logic. Read below.]Note that the farther you deviate from the evidence at hand and spin your own theories, the more assumptions you make and the weaker your argument becomes. If you look at the score 5 and score 4 essays, their logical attacks are less well explained and less grounded on to the evidence and structure of the argument.Pay attention to Slippery slope structures like the example. A slippery slope generally builds on a long chain of seemingly reasonable assumptions to arrive at unreasonable or poorly supported arguments. Take this example of a mom warning a child not to goto a party, because a party might have bad kids, that might befriend the child in question, and over time might introduce the child to drugs or alcohol as they grow up, that might develop into an addiction, that might then ruin high school grades, then destroy chances at college admissions, and ultimately fail to secure a well paying job, then ruin the child's life. From each jump the logical leap may seem small, but in the end the argument becomes going to party = life ruined. Attacking the statistical validity, the logical connection between one argument and another, the assumptions made on the evidence that determines whether it is circumstantial or irrefutable become the major points of the essay. Avoid the urge to impress the writers by using fancy words and complex grammatical structures. Use the KISS principle and write in straightforward wording to allow your argument to come out with a strong tone.

When I started preparing for GRE, I realized that though I was quite comfortable with Quantitative Section,  I was a total noob at Verbal, be it vocabulary or reading comprehension. I had precisely three months to prepare. I surfed through the net and found that the New GRE was "context intensive" unlike its older version which was "vocabulary intensive". In other words, it was your "depth of knowledge" in vocabulary and not the breadth that mattered, which meant I could cut short my target vocabulary bank from 4000 to 1500 but with a caveat that I had to learn those 1500 words inside out, their usage in context of the sentence, which included not just primary, but secondary and tertiary meanings.Note: Below is the study pattern that I followed and it worked for me, but this is not the only way, you can always modify it as per your style. This is more focused on verbal section as I was fairly comfortable in the quantitative section from the beginning. I hope it proves helpful to you as well.1. First Month: ConditioningAs Norman Lewis puts it, if the Vocabulary Bank is Calcium, then extensive reading is Vitamin D. There is no point in taking more and more calcium if you don't have sufficient Vitamin D to absorb it.First Three Weeks: Work out (don't just read, work it out with pencil) "Word Power Made Easy" by Norman Lewis. It has 45 sessions. Finish 15 sessions per week, roughly 1.5-2 hours per day.In parallel, start reading one newspaper EXTENSIVELY. Read it inside out (of course there are some sections which are just not your type, you can leave out those 2-3 pages). I started reading Economic Times because I had an inclination for business news (and with all those graphs and pie charts, it inadvertently prepared me for Data Interpretation as well) Fourth Week: Time for some extra Vitamin D. Pick up one novel (preferably a motivational one) and read it voraciously, just finish it off in one week and don't forget to mark the new words that you come across while reading. Initially, it will pose some difficulty to those who are not into reading. I myself had a bitter start but a good novel will absorb you into it as you proceed. (I read The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand, it took me 12 days and yes, it really pumped me up)Meanwhile, continue with the newspaper DAILY.So, it's been one month now. Don't expect anything from yourself yet. By this time, you have a cursory vocabulary bank of 400-500 words and through extensive reading of newspaper and a novel, you have conditioned yourself for the next phase.2. Second Month: Hitting the Bull's Eye=>The typical "GRE" way Now it's time to learn some real vocabulary, for the next three weeks, don't think of anything else but vocabulary. There are three different sources for high and medium frequency words that I'm going to mention below, but the good thing is, most of the words from these word lists overlap.First Three Weeks:Sign up at Vocabulary.com. Select the Vocabulary.com Top 1000 and click on "Learn this list" which offers objective type practice questions. It's a good habit to practice these words after signing in as they keep a track of your learning curve and offer you the practice questions accordingly.Join the New GRE group on Facebook. It's the most active GRE group on Facebook right now. It will help you in two ways:Members post random GRE questions on this group, which will give you a rough idea of how the questions are going to be while you are still in the Vocabulary building phase.Secondly, it's a good source to prepare for quantitative section. As long as you are able to solve the math problems being posted over there, you can care-freely concentrate on your verbal preparation. You'll get access to some really USEFUL links.The next source of vocabulary that I referred to was 1500 Words from http://Majortests.com , shuffle between this and http://Vocabulary.com.The last but the "first" source is again, the word list at the end of "Word Power Made Easy". Meanwhile, don't forget to read the newspaper EXTENSIVELY, especially the Editorials.Now you are at a stage where you have a "faint" vocabulary word bank of 1500+ words, an extensive reading experience of a daily newspaper, a high-speed read novel and a fair idea of the level of verbal and quantitative GRE questions through Facebook group. Enough with the "Vocabulary Only" days, now it's time for some real action !!Fourth WeekTime to pick up the GRE preparations books: Now that you have enough vocabulary and reading habit in your armory, its time to use this raw material and shape it to fit the GRE examination pattern. Start with Official GRE by ETS. It will give you a clear idea of the pattern of the exam, but that's all its useful for. Don't expect it to be sufficient for practice problems. This week, just do (work out) this book, read news paper and nothing else. Also, keep a check on your performance while attempting sample problems in this book and identify your weakness: Is it RC or multiple blanks/synonyms3. Third month: Reach the top speed, end the preparation like a sprint racerFirst Two WeeksPick up Manhattan 5 lb, practice ALL the verbal exercises, don't leave a single question unanswered. Frankly speaking, once you are in momentum, these questions are not time consuming, either you know the answer, which is great, or you don't, which you can just look up in the answer key quickly. I stumbled upon the maths section of 5 lb, I liked it, it had all those problems which, though simple, are little tricky and trap you with wrong answer. I practiced quant from this book which prepared me to be ready with these kind of tricky questions. Then you can go through Kaplan GRE practice book, its a small e-book, wouldn't take much time but having finished two books will give you immense confidence and speed in problem solving. Another "thin" book that I quickly skimmed through (I'm telling you, once you are in momentum, these books will pass through in a fly) 1014 Practive Questions for the new GRE-The Princeton Review. You can also pick up books 7 and 8 from Manhattan GRE 1-8 series for RC and Sentence completion respectively.Last Two WeeksIts time to pick up what we have been letting off till now: AWA and Exam Practice Tests. For AWA, I'd read samples from Manhattan AWA. I really like the way they break down the technique to answer the AWA section, which makes it really easy to structure your thought. For more random RC practice with a timer, just visit Codecoax.com and it will pop up an RC for you. Lastly, practice as much full length exams as you can with TIMER. Practice atleast 5. For full length tests, here are some links that you can visit:20 online tests800Score's Free Full Length Revised GRE TestMyGRETutor's 4 free Full Length TestsKaplan's Free Practice Test Options for the GREPrinceton Review: Free GRE Full length testIts easy ! Its doable !! Just do it !!!Originally answered here: How to score 330+ in GRE in 3 months ?







Dear GRE Aspirant,The main purpose of GRE is to judge your proficiency on the basis of the mathematical, logical and verbal aptitudes. Graduate schools use GRE to assess your readiness to undertake a full-time Graduate Program at a university abroad.While numerous books have published by various sources that act as appropriate training material, there are a handful of books that give you a detailed conceptual learning.Some of these are:#1 The Holy Book: The Official Guide to the GREThis must-have book while preparing for the test is the one straight from the test makers - ETS. It gives you a comprehensive overview of the entire test as a whole and helps you to get a better hang of the test format, pattern and question types.The Official Guide explains everything about the test in detail from the different question modes, scoring and time systems, the purpose of every section, the section descriptions and the question examples in each section distributed by difficulty level. It comprises of the GRE Math Review and there are practice questions at the end of each Math section of this review. In addition, the Guide comes with 4 practice tests – 2 paper based and 2 computer based that are in the CD that accompanies the book. While this book is the most authentic source for all sections of the test, it seriously lacks the practice questions in number and difficulty levels too. You can use this Guide to gain an overview of the tests, however, using only this book for the test could be a serious drawback due to lack of practice materials.#2 The Holy Trinity: Official Super Power PackThis set does its name complete justice – it is indeed the Power Pack that comprises of the aforementioned Official Guide along with two more books for extensive practice.You can gain a very serious understanding of the questions that will be in the test and also practice them in plenty using this aptly named power pack. Since this is an official source, all the information will be related to adequate practice and strategies to solve difficult questions. It would not cover some essential time-saving tricks that will help you get an upper hand in the test#3 The Heavyweight Champion: Manhattan 5lbAnother aptly named test guide, the Manhattan 5 lb is a book that actually weighs more than 5 lb. It comprises of practice materials for each section that has been segregated according to the topics.This book can prove to be immensely helpful in making the concepts concrete through the massive selection of practice questions and the detailed descriptions for the answers. Also the book helps you get familiar with some tricks that will prove essential on the test day – for both Quants and Verbal. Many test takers have claimed this book to be as close to the actual test as anything can be. However, if you are looking at it from a study or introductory guide’s point of view, you would be disappointed since it for practice only.All in all, it’s a guide that you would approach after you are sure of your primary study and are confident of solving the questions.#4 Make your own Menu: Manhattan Prep's 8 GRE Strategy GuidesAnother one of Manhattan Prep wonders – there are 8 guides however this time instead of 5lb worth of practice data all in one. It also comes along with 6 computer based practice. As opposed to the 5lb, this book has divided each and every component of the test into 8 different books that again in a contrasting move to the 5 lb book – have detailed description of the concepts, the different question types for these concepts, the detailed answers and tricks for solving these answers successfully and in a timely manner. Do note that this book focuses more on the theories and solving techniques and the practice questions are comparatively lesser in number. You can choose the concept that you are lagging in and study it using the specific guide.#5 The Beginner’s Handbook: Cracking the GRE Premium by Princeton ReviewThis handbook is more like an introductory manual for the GRE. It is a complimentary book to the Official Guide and it provides a lot more theoretical data. It comes along with 2 computer based tests with detailed explanations and includes access to the online video tutorials of Princeton Review.However, that is all that it is – a book for the beginners. The fact that the book consists mainly of general overview is a serious drawback. You would need to practice for the GRE using alternative sources since the book lacks extensive practice materials.#6 The All Inclusive Trifecta: GRE Complete by KaplanThis Kaplan Prep system comes with the 3 books – Quants, Verbal and Premier (tests and strategies); an access to the online question bank, 5 practice tests, an online study plan and lastly a CD with information about the tests and grad school application process as a whole.This set is indeed a thorough guide to the test and lacks neither the practice data nor the explanatory data. The partially paper based and partially computer based data makes it a very conveniently adaptive format of study.However, the book seems to lack adequate number of questions for the quantitative section.#7 Know your numbers!: GRE Math Prep Course by NovaThis book, as the title suggests, concentrates only on the Quantitative Aptitude section of the test.While there are other, more comprehensive and all sections inclusive books published by Nova (eg. GRE Complete Prep Course), Nova press is best known for this Math wonder. It includes the concepts broken down into categories that are essentially created by them. It helps you know the type of strategies necessary to tackle your weak areas and practice the same using a plethora of available questions. Also, the questions are broken down by the difficulty level which makes it easier to track the level of progress. Extra sources for Verbal would have to be referred since this specific book is limited to the Quant section only.#8 Know your words!: Barron’s SourcesUnlike the Nova book, Barron’s publishes study material mainly for the Verbal section – the vocabulary related data.While there are a number of books that you can refer, Barron’s GRE is the most popular book which is an advanced guide to practice the tougher questions from all sections. Besides this, Barron’s is reputed for the vocabulary related data it publishes like the word lists that based on the frequency of the words on the tests like Barron’s 333 and Essential Words for GRE. Barron’s is one source that would be trickier for those who don’t have their basics in place or those who plan to prepare last minute.Even though a lot of books might help you in your GRE preparation, it is always advisable to have a study plan that will help you differentiate your stronger and weaker areas.While books might help you with concepts, it is always better if you get personalized attention for GRE as you can immediately clarify all your doubts as and when they arise.Make it a point to choose the best method of learning and this will help you score high.According to me, to prepare for an online test, methods with online preparation and actual test experience providers is very important. Check GREedge for GRE and Admission guidance to score better GRE scores and best Admits.All the best and Happy learning!

Recommended Books - These books are highly recommended for GRE preparation, listed with their pros and cons -1) The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test. By ETS.A must have because right now since ETS is more knowledgeable than any one else about the new format of GRE.Includes around 100 sample questions organized according to difficulty level.Has real essays written by test takers along with the ETS people’s evaluation and comments.2) Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesThese books are great.Majority of them (6 out of 8) are devoted to math: Algebra, fractions, geometry, number properties, word problems and quantitative comparisons. The practice questions in Math are divided into three sections easy, medium and hard.There are two books devoted to the verbal section: Reading comprehension and Text completion & sentence equivalences. The books dealing with verbal section consists of more challenging questions than what actually appears in the test.The interface is very similar to that of the actual test, and so is the difficulty.3) Barron’s New GREA good book for Quant.Does not have the word listYou can download the word list online or xerox it from an old Barron’s.Includes sample tests.Also includes a CD with stimulated tests (around 2).Other Books - The above mentioned books are actually enough for all the preparation you will need. But if you want some more books for extra practise, consider the following -3) Cracking the NEW GRE by Princeton.A good book for practice. Nothing special though.4) Kaplan NEW GRE PremierI have not used the book personally, but my friends swear this book is the reason they score high in their exam.Apart from that, I recommend getting your hands on the following too -(i) Nova GRE Math Bible (softcopy) - Excellent for math preparation. Has 1000s of questions organized according to difficulty levels and topics. Must Have!(ii) Voca Game based on Barron’s Word List - An excellent refreshing multiple choice game where you need to guess a word’s meaning. Has ALL Barron’s Words.(iii) Big Book (softcopy) - This book had a lot of old GRE papers but is now out of publication. Even though it has old GRE questions, they really help you increase your reading speed for RCs and test your words memory as well.You will also find the following online resources handy when preparing for the GRE -1) Practice tests and resources for high school, college and graduate tests - Though their RCs section has weird questions and answers.2) Home | Tyrannosaurus Prep - A fun word game for GRE and SAT though don’t rely solely on it to learn words as they do not have even half the important words that are present in Barrons. YOU CANNOT ESCAPE BARRON’S WORD LIST.Other Tips for GRE -Apart from that, here are some tips that you might find useful during your preparation-Preparing by yourself is absolutely fine. But if you do want to join a class, join Princeton/Kaplan classes (Quite expensive though). Or prepare on your own. Certainly doable.You need at least 2-3 months of preparation.Verbal preparation and memorizing words consume 80% of the time for most students. Start with high frequency word lists (around 500 words) to remember the important words first. Easily available on net. Then go on to Barron’s 5000 words list.You need to do Barron’s 5000 word list at least 2-3 times to remember most of the words.Don’t ignore math. Students often loose a lot of marks due to silly mistakes.READ THE QUESTIONS PROPERLY! Don’t ponder too long on a question though. Mark it for review and move on!

GRE Preparation Books and GRE Study Materials:Educational Testing Service (ETS): The conducting authority of GRE, ETS produces some of the best GRE preparation books. In fact, ETS’s official GRE study materials are must buys for every GRE aspirant. The advantage of preparing from ETS guides is that the sample papers and practice sets are in sync with the actual GRE test. The best in the series is of course the ETS super power pack which includes a bundle of verbal and quantitative GRE preparation books, test preparation materials, expert tips among others. Besides, ETS offers a comprehensive guide which aims at clearing conceptual doubts of the sections.List of ETS GRE study materials:Official super power packThe Official Guide to the GREThe Official Guide to the quantitative reasoningThe Official Guide to verbal reasoningManhattan prep: Manhattan prep’s books are some of the most popular GRE study materials for GRE aspirants.Of course, like in ETS you can go for the whole set or individual GRE preparation books. The Manhattan Prep GRE set includes 8 guides ontopics likeWord problems, decimals, Number properties, algebra among others.A word of caution here-Don’t use the Manhattan prep GRE set as a last minute study tool. This comprehensive set should be a part of your elaborate preparation strategy while you are attempting the topics.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Manhattan Prep:5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems500 Essential Words: GRE Vocabulary Flash CardsManhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesKaplan: Study abroad exams and Kaplan go hand in hand.The education provider has not only been guiding students in their preparation but also offers a wide range of GRE study materials for students preparing for the test. Kaplan’s most popular package is an annual GRE Premier and GRE Complete. Kaplan’s GRE premier has an incredible 2200 practice questions and 6 full length practice tests. Further, it also includes an online QuizBank which has 500 questions for the aspirants to solve.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Kaplan:GRE Premier 2016 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Premier 2017 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Vocabulary FlashcardsGRE Math WorkbookGRE 2017 Strategies, Practice & Review with 4 Practice TestsBarron’s: Known as a master test prep provider, Barron’slist of GRE preparation books offer a comprehensive set of tips and practice tests for GRE aspirants. Barron’s GRE is of course the most popular of the lot. Currently, in its 21st edition, the GRE study materials contains strategies for all the sections- verbal, analytical, and quantitative along with model tests and answer keys. What more. Barron’s GRE study material also gives the buyer free access to its GRE online courses including practice questions and video tutorials.Virant: Vibrant brings out one of the few good GRE preparation books which cater to the analytical writing section of GRE. The most popular of the lot is the latest edition of Vibrant’s GRE Analytical Writing, which offers very simple and clear strategies to ace this section.Best part about these GRE preparation books is that they offer sample essays on topics similar to that which come in GRE tests.GRE preparation- Online and practice sets: There are many GRE study materials available online that students can use besides books. In fact, you have the option of downloading pdfs on the various topics. You can even take mock tests online to check your time-management skills. You can either download the materials or buy online preparation kits Besides that, you can also refer to IELTS preparation sample papers.

You should definitely get the ETS Official Guides for the GRE if taking the exam before August 1 or Revised GRE if taking the exam after Aug 1.Barron's has been and still is great for their list of vocab words.  A common misconception is that the new/revised GRE doesn't test vocab.  The revised GRE does test vocab, however it's vocab in context meaning that you will have clues from a sentence to help you. So Barron's is still a good bet.The GRE Big Book (again by ETS) is arguably the best source of practice questions for the GRE. It contains over 5,000 questions from 27 actual tests.  The major catch is that it's not longer sold by ETS, but you could search for used ones. I've seen them go for as much as $300.Outside of books, online/computer-based tools are also great for GRE prep as they provide an experience more similar to the actual exam than books do.  Again, ETS is the best source of questions with their Powerprep (for the current GRE) and Powerprep 2 (for the revised GRE). But Powerprep lacks explanations to questions.  My company, Magoosh (http://gre.magoosh.com), has online products for both the current GRE and the new GRE with video explanations for most questions.  There are several others with products for the current GRE and I have yet to see another company with a new GRE online product with the new question types.I'd suggest using a combination of books and computer-based tools to prep. And using the Powerprep tests to assess your progress.

Attending school, we often forget about an appropriate time for learning. How long you should study for the is an important consideration. However, there is no one simple answer. The Graduate Record Exam (GRE) is an exam taken by college graduates who are applying to graduate school. The GRE General Test is composed of three sections: verbal reasoning, analytic reasoning, and analytic writing. The four books listed below offer instructions on how to complete each section of the test, strategies for being successful before and during the test, and practice questions to get you ready for test day. While there are a lot of study guides out there, these four are the top in the industry and earned the reputation they deserve by providing high-quality material that prepares students for this important exam. With one of these books and some hard work and dedication, you can be on your way to earning a high score on the GRE and entrance into your graduate school of choice. Click https://pro-homework-help.com if you need help in study. If you are a quantum physicist with a penchant for vocab who enjoys spending your time, solving convoluted math problems you do not need much time for preparation. If cramming means two to three weeks, then you don’t have to be our aforementioned quantum physicist. For those that are relatively adept at math, you can score well with little preparation. Preparation for the test will depend on the amount of time you have available and your personal preferences for how to prepare. When taking the computer-delivered GRE General Test, you are free to skip questions that you might have difficulty answering. The testing software has a "mark and review" feature that enables you to mark questions you would like to revisit during the time provided to work on that section. The testing software also lets you view a complete list of all the questions in the section on which you're working, indicates whether you've answered each question and identifies the questions you've marked for review. The GRE is broken down into three primary components: verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, and analytical writing. For the verbal reasoning section, test takers have two 30-minute periods to answer two sets of 20 questions. Test-takers answer two sets of 20 quantitative reasoning questions, with 35 minutes to answer each set. The analytical writing section consists of two essays, for which test takers get 30 minutes to write each. The verbal and quantitative reasoning sections are graded on a 130- to 170-point scale in 1-point increments, and the analytical writing section is scored on a 0-6 scale in half-point increments.Every student decides what he or she needs for an exam, what resources are better, etc. Many GRE test takers are many years removed from the basic tenets of high school math, which play an important part in the quantitative section of the test. If you're rusty, it's important to revisit the concepts of algebra and geometry that you learned in high school. During your time in school, be sure to read as much as possible to expand your vocabulary so that you can decipher unfamiliar words, testing experts say.ETS: GRE The Official Guide to the Revised General TestEducational Testing Services (ETS), the maker of the GRE, offers the only official guide to the test. Known as the authoritative guide to the GRE for good reason, because it's made by the same company who creates the test, it is one of the most recommended test-taking guides. This guide has a good reputation because they can prepare you for exactly what you should expect on the test. This guide comes with four complete real test (two are available using the included CD-ROM), hundreds of authentic test questions, detailed descriptions of the Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning Content Areas including tips for answering each type of question, and an overview of the two types of Analytic Writing Tasks you will encounter on the test including scored sample responses with actual raters' comments.GRE Prep 2017 with 8 Practice TestsTest Prep (Argo Brothers) Lot of practice questions. It's like condensed form of Kaplan with useful information. Good book if you want to practice lot of questions in 1-2 weeks. It has lot of typos as reported by some users but highly recommended. If you have any questions or if you need any clarification on any problem then you can submit a free ticket on their website (it's a free service)Manhattan PrepManhattan Prep, a leader in test-taking readiness, offers a wide range of products to help you prepare for the exam. They offer 8 test-taking strategy guides, focusing on each of the tests content areas including Algebra; Fractions, Decimals, & Percents; Geometry; Number Properties; and Word Problems. Also available from Manhattan Prep is the book "Reading Comprehension & Essays GRE Strategy Guide," 500 Essential Words: GRE Vocasbulary flashcards, and more.Barron's GRE: 21st EditionBarron is a name that is well-known in the testing industry and their GRE preparation book stands up to the name. This 624 page book comes with one diagnostic test and two full-length models of the actual test structure reflected in the GRE exam. Additionally, not only are all answers provided for the sample tests but Barron provides explanations for the answers as well to help you fully prepare for what you will encounter on the GRE. With purchase of this book you can access to Barron's online GRE Course and ipad app for essay preparation.Kaplan's GRE Premier 2017This comprehensive new package includes strategies, test taking instructions, and practice questions to help you tackle this difficult exam. This book also includes a digital iPad download and DVD and online access to 22,00+ questions. It offers 6 online Practice Tests. You also get free DVD and mobile application to study. This book is stocked with a wealth of test-taking strategies to ensure you are successful. Kaplan also provides academic support from faculty on their Facebook page and a guarantee that if you use their resources and strategies you will score higher on the GRE General Test or receive a full refund.Best GRE Books 2016 – 2017 | GRE Book ReviewsWhile here at Magoosh, I’ve reviewed the all best GRE prep books over the years. Today, I’m happy to announce that I’ve made some updates to our Best GRE Books List! While not all of these books are from this year (some are far from it), the list offers my honest GRE book reviews and recommendations for the best GRE book options on the market.Best GRE Books 2016 – 2017It’s 2016 and, to be honest, not a lot has changed in the GRE prep book landscape in the last few years. This is good news for you—you can head to Amazon and buy inexpensive (new or used) versions of many of the best GRE books below and know that you’re not sacrificing quality for price.In this post, I list the best GRE prep books on the market and explain the positives and negatives of each. If you’re just interested in reading about one or two, use the links in the Table of Contents to jump to that section of the post.Best GRE Prep BooksWithout any further ado, I present you with the list of the top 8 best GRE prep books (in order) and three books deserving of an honorable mention (in no particular order).Most publishers change very little content from one edition to the other. If I can save you money by recommending an old edition of a great book, then I’m going to do that!1. Magoosh GRE BookBetween the covers, this 468-page book packs more than a hundred practice questions accompanied by comprehensive explanations—all pulled directly from our renowned online GRE prep product. Not only is the book loaded with tons of useful information, but each question and answer has been triple checked by industry experts to maximize students’ learning.2. Free GRE eBooksTangible or not, the eBooks are free and they provide a wealth of helpful strategies. Along with the rest of Magoosh’s free GRE resources, they are a great way to start your GRE journey, before deciding on which book to purchase.3. ETS’s The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test, 2nd EditionThis is the holy grail of prep. If you can only buy one book, this is it. The tone of the voice may not be as friendly as almost any other book on the market. But if you can bear the dry content, you are getting by far the best practice since ETS writes the questions for the test.Throw in two GRE computer-based tests, which are in a CD that accompanies the book, and the best GRE book on the market gets even better.4. ETS’s Official GRE Verbal Reasoning Practice Questions & Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning Practice QuestionsThe strategies are nothing new (you can learn all of those from this blog), but this book is a must-buy, if only for the quality of its practice questions. The Quantitative Reasoning book, on the other hand, contains both helpful practice problems and useful new strategies. A word of warning: these new math problems are really challenging. They’ll definitely require some extra attention, and will help you up your quant game.5. Barron’s 6 GRE Practice TestsThis book is not perfect. But it is better than the Barron’s general GRE guide.6. Practicing to Take the GRE General Test, 10th EditionThis is a version of the old GRE, and the old, old GRE at that (the tests were taken from 1991, a year some of you had yet to enter the world). Yes, the math is much easier. Still, these are questions created by the writers of test, so the traps are classical GRE. I wouldn’t use this as a foundation for my GRE test prep, but check out the review to see if it’s a good fit for your studies: Practicing to Take the GRE, 10th Edition Book Review.The Reading Comprehension passages are still tough and make for good practice. And while they’ve cut the Antonym and Analogy sections, the antonym questions still make for good practice (the analogies contain many ridiculous words, such as names of tools and sewing implements).7. The Manhattan GRE Series (MGRE) – Books One Through EightThs series contains eight (mostly excellent) books written by those with years of tutoring experience. This fact really shines through in the authorial voice this series uses. You feel as though there is a highly intelligent, but fun, laid back tutor walking you through the material.The six free online tests you get by simply buying any one of the eight books makes MGRE a no-brainer if you want expert guidance and great practice.8. Vibrant’s GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to Real Essay Topics BooksBook 1These books from Vibrant Publishing GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to Real Essay Topics and GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to the Real Essay Topics – Book 2 are a welcome addition to the GRE literature scene. Not because they’re perfect, but because they contain GRE sample essays … something few books have. They’ll help you craft a decent response to a range of GRE essay topics. Not required reading, but definitely helpful if you want to improve your essay score.GRE Book Honorable MentionThis book is generally substandard, and if after reading my review (see below), you are surprised I’m pairing it with this top five list, then I owe a quick explanation: the inclusion of the The Princeton Review book speaks to the generally low quality of GRE prep books out there.9. The Princeton Review, Cracking the GRE, 2017 EditionThese strategies are mostly absent from the Official Guide (though I share similar strategies in the eBook and on the blog).That said, two major caveats: Do not use this book if you are looking for a high score. The strategies are very generic; they apply to most standardized tests, and they won’t help you understand the nuances or advanced concepts in the GRE. Secondly, do not do the questions, unless you are scoring way below 50% and are just starting off on the GRE. From this book glean some helpful strategies that you can use on actual test questions. Otherwise, this book is not of much use.Since this book remains almost exactly the same from year to year, here’s the review of an older version: Princeton Review: Cracking the New GRE 2012 Book Review10. Kaplan New GRE Premier 2011-2012 Book ReviewThe 2014 Kaplan book is no different from the previous two years. Test prep strategies that are very high-level and not that innovative, followed by subpar questions. That is, these questions aren’t like what you’ll see test day in terms of difficulty or style. It’s better to not waste one’s time with this book.McGraw Hill’s New GRE with 8 Practice TestsHere are dozens, if not hundreds, of GRE books on the market. Good luck!

For all those who are preparing for GRE / TOEFL exams, Here's a collection of all materials (Books, Notes, Videos, Audio) I used.Simple steps1. Go to link - ETS-material - Google Drive2. Download the zipNote - Since file size is large, download can take considerable amount of time.PS - If you have more notes and want to share, send it via mail.GRE materialTo answer your question, these are some of the GRE Books5lbMagooshNovaETS Official GUide to GRE 2nd EditionGruberBarron's GRE 12th EditionPrinceton WordsPrinceton Review - Verbal WorkoutRS Agarwal Quantitative AptitudeManhattan GRE 2nd EditionGRE Practice TestBigBookCracking the GRE 2013 EditionSeries501 Series (includes Reading Comprehension, Sentence Completion, Quantitative exams)800 Series (Verbal tests)Essay preparation, Math Review booksWord Power Made Easy solutionBunch of Word lists -ManhattanBarronKaplan84018533000#GRE #TOEFL #ETS #Preparations #Masters







Dear GRE Aspirant,The main purpose of GRE is to judge your proficiency on the basis of the mathematical, logical and verbal aptitudes. Graduate schools use GRE to assess your readiness to undertake a full-time Graduate Program at a university abroad.While numerous books have published by various sources that act as appropriate training material, there are a handful of books that give you a detailed conceptual learning.Some of these are:#1 The Holy Book: The Official Guide to the GREThis must-have book while preparing for the test is the one straight from the test makers - ETS. It gives you a comprehensive overview of the entire test as a whole and helps you to get a better hang of the test format, pattern and question types.The Official Guide explains everything about the test in detail from the different question modes, scoring and time systems, the purpose of every section, the section descriptions and the question examples in each section distributed by difficulty level. It comprises of the GRE Math Review and there are practice questions at the end of each Math section of this review. In addition, the Guide comes with 4 practice tests – 2 paper based and 2 computer based that are in the CD that accompanies the book. While this book is the most authentic source for all sections of the test, it seriously lacks the practice questions in number and difficulty levels too. You can use this Guide to gain an overview of the tests, however, using only this book for the test could be a serious drawback due to lack of practice materials.#2 The Holy Trinity: Official Super Power PackThis set does its name complete justice – it is indeed the Power Pack that comprises of the aforementioned Official Guide along with two more books for extensive practice.You can gain a very serious understanding of the questions that will be in the test and also practice them in plenty using this aptly named power pack. Since this is an official source, all the information will be related to adequate practice and strategies to solve difficult questions. It would not cover some essential time-saving tricks that will help you get an upper hand in the test#3 The Heavyweight Champion: Manhattan 5lbAnother aptly named test guide, the Manhattan 5 lb is a book that actually weighs more than 5 lb. It comprises of practice materials for each section that has been segregated according to the topics.This book can prove to be immensely helpful in making the concepts concrete through the massive selection of practice questions and the detailed descriptions for the answers. Also the book helps you get familiar with some tricks that will prove essential on the test day – for both Quants and Verbal. Many test takers have claimed this book to be as close to the actual test as anything can be. However, if you are looking at it from a study or introductory guide’s point of view, you would be disappointed since it for practice only.All in all, it’s a guide that you would approach after you are sure of your primary study and are confident of solving the questions.#4 Make your own Menu: Manhattan Prep's 8 GRE Strategy GuidesAnother one of Manhattan Prep wonders – there are 8 guides however this time instead of 5lb worth of practice data all in one. It also comes along with 6 computer based practice. As opposed to the 5lb, this book has divided each and every component of the test into 8 different books that again in a contrasting move to the 5 lb book – have detailed description of the concepts, the different question types for these concepts, the detailed answers and tricks for solving these answers successfully and in a timely manner. Do note that this book focuses more on the theories and solving techniques and the practice questions are comparatively lesser in number. You can choose the concept that you are lagging in and study it using the specific guide.#5 The Beginner’s Handbook: Cracking the GRE Premium by Princeton ReviewThis handbook is more like an introductory manual for the GRE. It is a complimentary book to the Official Guide and it provides a lot more theoretical data. It comes along with 2 computer based tests with detailed explanations and includes access to the online video tutorials of Princeton Review.However, that is all that it is – a book for the beginners. The fact that the book consists mainly of general overview is a serious drawback. You would need to practice for the GRE using alternative sources since the book lacks extensive practice materials.#6 The All Inclusive Trifecta: GRE Complete by KaplanThis Kaplan Prep system comes with the 3 books – Quants, Verbal and Premier (tests and strategies); an access to the online question bank, 5 practice tests, an online study plan and lastly a CD with information about the tests and grad school application process as a whole.This set is indeed a thorough guide to the test and lacks neither the practice data nor the explanatory data. The partially paper based and partially computer based data makes it a very conveniently adaptive format of study.However, the book seems to lack adequate number of questions for the quantitative section.#7 Know your numbers!: GRE Math Prep Course by NovaThis book, as the title suggests, concentrates only on the Quantitative Aptitude section of the test.While there are other, more comprehensive and all sections inclusive books published by Nova (eg. GRE Complete Prep Course), Nova press is best known for this Math wonder. It includes the concepts broken down into categories that are essentially created by them. It helps you know the type of strategies necessary to tackle your weak areas and practice the same using a plethora of available questions. Also, the questions are broken down by the difficulty level which makes it easier to track the level of progress. Extra sources for Verbal would have to be referred since this specific book is limited to the Quant section only.#8 Know your words!: Barron’s SourcesUnlike the Nova book, Barron’s publishes study material mainly for the Verbal section – the vocabulary related data.While there are a number of books that you can refer, Barron’s GRE is the most popular book which is an advanced guide to practice the tougher questions from all sections. Besides this, Barron’s is reputed for the vocabulary related data it publishes like the word lists that based on the frequency of the words on the tests like Barron’s 333 and Essential Words for GRE. Barron’s is one source that would be trickier for those who don’t have their basics in place or those who plan to prepare last minute.Even though a lot of books might help you in your GRE preparation, it is always advisable to have a study plan that will help you differentiate your stronger and weaker areas.While books might help you with concepts, it is always better if you get personalized attention for GRE as you can immediately clarify all your doubts as and when they arise.Make it a point to choose the best method of learning and this will help you score high.According to me, to prepare for an online test, methods with online preparation and actual test experience providers is very important. Check GREedge for GRE and Admission guidance to score better GRE scores and best Admits.All the best and Happy learning!







This link offers the best GRE Guide: The Ultimate GRE Guide - Cafe EnginerdThe verbal section in the link is described as follows,Verbal Prep:The key to cracking verbal is to know the words. If you get the words, it is just a simple English Fill in the Blank then.So where to do the words. Follow this method and you will crack the GRE:Read this entire book- Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition (English, Paperback, NORMAN LEWIS). It is a fairly small book that will tell you the origins of all the words and second half of the book is filled with words alphabetically. If you do this book, you are ready for the GRE. Please buy this book, its only for 100rs and will certainly change your future.Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition - Buy Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition Online at Best Prices in India - Flipkart.comThe Magoosh App (Complete it 3 TIMES, Not a JOKE)It is my opinion that rather than doing 10000 words while reading them only once, do only 2000-4000 words and read them 3-4 times. It is not humanly possible to remember the words in one go. The best method to remember words is to by remembering the example. Make sure you read the words so many times that you must remember not only the example but even the word that is next in line ;p. You can also do words from those Barron 800 or other 1000 words book. But they will simply be a repetition from Word Power.After you feel satisfied with the words, you can start off with the 5lb and other practice books. There is also some GMAT 1000. Do essays properly and understand how to read them. Reading is not as important as understanding what to read. Learn how to read. There is no method in this apart from quickly skimming and understanding what was written in which para. Read the question and find the answer properly in that para. Also, learn which essays to leave during the exam as some are very tough (literally greek) and will waste your time for the other easy questions.For more doubts about MS in US visit us: Masters - Cafe Enginerd and send your queries to cafeenginerd@gmail.com. Happy to Help!

These are the things I followed and managed to get a pretty decent score after preparing for 15-16 days. Barrons and Kaplan are excellent books to prepare for GRE, but before you start the real preparation, you want to know as many words as possible, for which the general suggestion everyone gives is reading Barrons wordlist.Most people do start off trying to read and remember those 3500 words from Barrons wordlist. But as I have noticed, a very high percentage of people give up within the first week and probably even before they finish words starting with 'a'. That might be for the following reasons:way too many words: if you have an amazing vocabulary and you are aware of most of the words, then its fine. But I am assuming thats not the case with most of us. Once you actually start reading and you know how much time you take to go through say a 100 words, its very discouraging to have that huge a set of words ahead of you.words are in alphabetical order: you have this whole page of words, say 40-50 words in a single page, so many times the first 3-4 characters will be the same for all of them, that is very very confusing. You will spend hours trying to memorize and yet you will horribly fail.content is compressed: if you buy the book having wordlist or if you manage to get a pdf copy, you will notice that the words and meanings are printed in small font and there is barely any space to write down any notes.So this is what I did:I came across this website http://www.majortests.com where you get 15 wordlists, each wordlist containing 100 words, thats 1500 words totally. In each wordlist, these 100 words are again subdivided into lists of 10 words each and now these 10 words dont start with the same letter. For example, 1st 10 words will be "abhor, bigot, counterfeit, enfranchise, hamper, kindle, noxious, placid, remuneration, talisman", and then the next 10 words will be "abrasive, bilk, covert, engender, hangar, knotty, nuance, plagiarism, renown, tangent" and so on. So its easier to read and remember these words.Secondly, the wordlists that you download from the above website have  exactly 20 words per page, and half of the page (right hand side column) is left blank to take down notes.If you still find it difficult to memorize words, or you want to be a 100% sure that you remember the words you read once, then you could try mnemonics, an easy way to remember meanings (thanks to gp). Go to http://www.mnemonicdictionary.com and type the word you want mnemonic for, and choose from the list of mnemonics available. This website is just like quora in the sense that mnemonics are arranged in the descending order of the number of upvotes they get. I used to write these mnemonics as notes in the wordlists I had got printed, that way I didnt have to go to the website again even if I forgot the mnemonic.(In the end, if you think you have a lot of time left, then you could go through Barrons high frequency words wordlist, you dont want to miss out on any obvious ones.)Once you are done with wordlists, then starts your actual preparation. As I mentioned earlier, go through ETS, Barrons and Kaplan practice books. Read the tips and tricks given at the beginning of every chapter, trust me they help a lot. Then go through the practice questions given at the end of every chapter. Do verify whether your answers are correct or not, that is the whole point of solving them.Go through as many practice tests as possible. A safe minimum number of tests to be taken would be 10. You get 2 tests from ETS, 2 from Barrons if you have bought the book, and you will find several other paid/unpaid tests online. If you are taking online tests, make sure you have good internet connection probably 3g, you dont want any test to go waste mid way through. Take complete tests: no matter how confident you are about your quant, no matter how painstaking and boring essay writing may seem, its necessary you practice sitting for 4 hours in from of a computer and get an estimate of time required per question. Once you get the score after giving the practice test, go through the questions you answered wrong, even if you have got a good score. It would be a good idea to leave practice tests given by ETS for last, it gives you an idea of what the questions look like in the actual GRE, since they use the same formatting at both places.Even though I mentioned 15-16 days in the beginning, I think preparing for around 2 months would be a better idea.

The below study method is tried and tested by me and I'm hopeful that it would help you guys :) To excel at GRE Verbal, one has to have a good vocabulary. To bag a good vocabulary, make it a habit of reading newspapers daily because newspapers offer wide range of working vocabulary  related to different genres. I would recommend American newspapers (like Nytimes.com)  because the writing style closely matches with that of the content that appears in the exam. Coming to Indian newspapers, we all know that it has to be THE HINDU and nothing else. Observe every new word and understand its meaning. Revise it regularly.(Vocabulary.com  does a very good job for you in this. It tells you everything that you need to know about a word. Also, you can make word lists).  Try to use the words in your daily life.  One to two months of this reading should suffice. Now coming to cracking the individual sections of the verbal. 1)Reading Comprehension.Follow the simple steps mentioned in Manhattan Reading Comprehension book and practice diligently. 2)Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence Follow Manhattan text completion and sentence equivalence book. Very good hacks are mentioned in the book. It would be very useful. Again practice thoroughly. 3)  Practice questions from the book Manhattan 5lb practice as the above mentioned books do not offer sufficient number of questions. This book offers wide range of books in varying difficult levels.  In short, a good reading vocabulary equipped with the hacks mentioned in the above mentioned books will get you above 157 easily. Happy learning :)

“I studied in a Telugu medium school. My English skills are just okay, and I find the GRE Verbal Reasoning section intimidating. How do I face it?”“Ever since I turned a teen, I had been force-fed on The Hindu, Reader’s Digest, and the Time. Reading is now my favorite pastime. Yet, why do I find the Verbal Reasoning section of the GRE challenging?”At and between these two extremes is where students preparing for GRE fall. In my experience of 7 years as the Co founder of GREedge and having trained 30000+ students, I have realized that the Verbal Reasoning section is no cake walk for anyone. It can be, with methodical approach and some serious practice.Let’s approach this problem backward by analyzing what exactly can be challenging in the Verbal section of GRE:The answer choices can be tricky. For most TC, SE, & RC questions, while you may easily eliminate some of the choices, you will often be left with at least two choices that are close to being the correct answer choice. Choosing the correct one among them can be challenging.You might find some of the words in the question statement or the answer choices alien to you. In SE, where you have to choose two words with similar meanings for the blanks, this can particularly be challenging.The subject of the RC passage might be unfamiliar to you. Club it with some strange vocabulary and difficult language, and you can be thrown out of gear.“Choose all that apply” type of questions in RC. Considering that you don’t get any points for partially correct answers, this can be quite a pain, if you are not prepared.The logic and reasoning that is required in solving TC triple-blank questions and the RC passage questions can be challenging.Okay, now to the solutions. How do you overcome these challenges?Start by learning the most-important GRE words, which is about 3500 in number. Remember, GRE vocab is more about context and so focus on the contexts in which the words are used. The usage statements in dictionaries will help you in this aspect.As a simple example, though the words, “inflexible” and “obdurate” are synonymous, you wouldn’t use one in place of the other, right? It would be wrong to call an “inflexible schedule” to be an “obdurate schedule,” because the word, “obdurate,” refers to someone who is not flexible since he doesn’t wish to be so. An “obdurate” person refuses to move to sensitive emotional appeals.So, the point is, focus on the contextual usage of words. A good place to understand such nuances is the “synonym discussions” in Merriam Webster dictionary.Next, read good quality newspapers and periodicals. Read on your topic of interest. To describe the technique, I would like to share my personal experience here.I just got an update on the swimming competition at Rio Olympics and here’s what I learnt out of this snippet from The Guardian:I’ve been asked by reader Olympia Diamond if we ever got to the bottom of the manky green pool situation from yesterday. Yes and no? FINA put a statement out yesterday that included the following: FINA can confirm that the reason for the unusual water color observed during the Rio diving competitions is that the water tanks ran out of some of the chemicals used in the water treatment process.“As a result, the pH level of the water was outside the usual range, causing the discoloration. The FINA Sport Medicine Committee conducted tests on the water quality and concluded that there was no risk to the health and safety of the athletes, and no reason for the competition to be affected.”The old ran-out-of-chemicals defense. The water polo pool (next door) has a tinge of green to it now as well. I sense this story has some way to run.(A quick tip: FINA is the International Swimming Federation that is authorized by the International Olympic Committee to conduct international aquatic contests.)Okay, I might have just read this article, formed my own opinion of FINA, and move on to the next article, if I wasn’t going to take up my GRE. But, since I have my GRE now, I give it a second reading. I first understand the subject. It is about the sub-standard pool condition in the 2016 Olympics.I then mark new words (“manky” is one) in the article, look up the meaning, synonym/antonym, and usage statements in the dictionary. I open an Excel sheet and mark all such words that I pick up during the day. (Not trusting my memory, I do a weekly revision of this list.)Next, I look at places where the author is giving his opinion. Is he being critical of FINA or is he being supportive? Which is the statement in this article that indicates his opinion or tone? How is he concluding the write-up? Are there any gaps in his argument? Is he sounding biased?With this approach, you build not only your vocabulary but also your logic and reasoning skills. Gradually, move toward reading topics of serious interest, such as the Opinion and Editorial write-ups. Such writings are of more serious nature and you will get exposure to higher-order words, sentences, arguments, and contexts. This would largely help you in your Verbal Reasoning section of GRE.Finally, practice a number of TC, SE, & RC exercises. While there are trainers aplenty, go for quality trainers who know their job. Stick to the study plan that they provide. Practice a lot and take up timed tests. You will excel!

Thanks for the A2AThe fact that you have a good hold of atleast one branch of English usage is a strength. As for what you said, it’s not all about memorizing lists and reading newspapers. You just need to know some of the common words that are used in native English speaking nations and since you (like me) are a non-native speaker, you’re finding it difficult. But keep in mind that some of these words are going to pervade your regular vocabulary and feature in your regular usage, so even if you do have to memorize it, don’t feel that it is not going to be useful. As kids, we all memorized the alphabets and the simple words from the alphabets.Secondly, reading newspapers or for that matter anything with dense verbal content, you’re increasing your skills of comprehension, which is so necessary in the actual exam (also to reiterate my point, some of the difficult words will also be used in the passages). My personal opinion is that mastering reading comprehension is a sure way of getting a great score in the test, since even the text completion and sentence equivalence questions you solve would necessitate comprehending them (and they are quite dense with respect to content). So reading stuff that enhances your knowledge, uses good vocabulary and is of a varied nature when it comes to subject content is always helpful for the test, and a good newspaper is something that fits the billing perfectly.As for the preparation, if you want to do it unconventionally, I’d suggest you read books that have good content in them and uses above average vocabulary and try to absorb the gist of the text. Search for word meanings when you come across them, try to use them, so that you’ll know how to use words in context. Make a list of such words and make sentences to use them in. If you can’t read books, search for articles in a variety of subjects and do the same with it. The more topics you’re comfortable with, the better chances you have of scoring well. This is more time consuming than the conventional process and needs a lot of dedication and efforts and I assure you that it’d be worth it.

GRE Prep Online Guides and TipsHow to Ace GRE Verbal: 13 Expert Study TipsAuthor Ellen McCammonPosted onFebruary 7, 2017CategoriesGRE VerbalTagsgre format,gre practice, gre vocab, preparing for the gre, question types, reading comprehension, study tipsFeeling vexed by the GRE Verbal section? Or just not sure how to maximize your score? You’ve come to the right place!In this total guide to acing GRE Verbal, we’ll give a comprehensive overview of everything you need to know to get a great score. We’ll start with a quick bird’s-eye-view of the section, and then go in-depth on each question type. After that we’ll go over how to prepare for the test—with a special section on addressing common weaknesses. Finally, we’ll suggest some strategies for success on test day and provide a couple of extra tips for those of you who are going for that perfect 170!The GRE Verbal Section: An OverviewThe GRE Verbal Reasoning sectiontests your high-level reading and language skills. You’ll be asked vocabulary questions about choosing the appropriate word(s) for a given sentence based on context, and reading comprehension questions that have to do with parsing the main ideas and interpreting the details of complex passages.Like the Quantitative section, the GRE Verbal Section is a 40-question test split into two 20-question subsections. It’s scored on a scale from 130-170, in one-point increments.The GRE is section-adaptive, which means your performance on the first 20-question subsection determines the difficulty of questions in the second 20-question subsection. If you want a score towards the higher end of the scale, you need to be able to access that more difficult second subsection.Each 20-question section will havethe following approximate question breakdown:About 10 questions on vocab,split between sentence equivalence and text completion questions.About 10 questions on reading comprehension, split between traditional multiple choice, multi-answer multiple choice (select all correct answers from a list), and select-in-passage questions.We’ll do a deep dive on each of these question types in the next section.Quick side note: we've created the world's leading online GRE prep program that adapts to you and your strengths and weaknesses. Not sure what to study? Confused by how to improve your score? PrepScholar guides you, step by step.I want to be clear - you don't NEED a prep program to get a great GRE score. But we believe PrepScholar is thebest GRE prep program available right now, especially if you find it hard to organize your study schedule and don't know what to study.Click here to learn how you can improve your GRE score by 7 points, guaranteed.So get your scuba gear ready!GRE Verbal Questions: All 5 Types ExplainedIn this section, we’ll explain each GRE Verbal question type, provide an example and explanation, and give tips on how to approach those questions.GRE Verbal Vocab QuestionsThere are two kinds of vocab questions: sentence equivalence and text completion.SENTENCE EQUIVALENCESentence equivalence questions give you a sentence with one blank, and you need to pick two words from a selection of six that could both complete the sentence and give the sentence the same general meaning.Example QuestionHere’s an example of a sentence equivalence question from the ETS website.Directions: “Select the two answer choices that, when used to complete the sentence, fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole and produce completed sentences that are alike in meaning.”Question: Although it does contain some pioneering ideas, one would hardly characterize the work as __________.orthodoxeccentricoriginaltriflingconventionalinnovativeExplanationThe key signal word here is “although,” which lets us know that the second half of the sentence is going to offer a counterpoint to the first half. So though the work has “pioneering ideas” [point], one would not characterize the work as pioneering overall [counterpoint]. We’re looking for synonyms of pioneering to complete the sentence, then.“Orthodox” and “conventional” are antonyms of pioneering—let’s eliminate those. “Eccentric” is tempting, but a work can be strange without being pioneering, so it’s not quite right. “Original”—that could definitely work. “Trifling” means frivolous or inconsequential, which isn’t right. That leaves “innovative,” which is definitely a synonym for “pioneering.” The only answers that really work, then, are “original” and “innovative.”GRE Verbal Tips for Sentence EquivalenceWhile a lot of the individual words might make seem like they make sense in the context of the sentence, the two words have to give the sentence a similar meaning.If you’re pretty sure of one word, that can help you narrow down your choices for the other word; you can eliminate any choices that would make the sentence mean something totally different.However, don’t assume that just because you’ve found two synonyms that you’ve got the right answer; the makers of the GRE often put in multiple synonym pairs to trip you up! In the question above, “orthodox” and “traditional” have similar meaning, but they aren’t the right choices because the sentence doesn’t really make sense with them.I know they’re cute, but don’t just pick the first twins you see!TEXT COMPLETIONText completion questions give you a sentence or short passage (up to six sentences) missing one to three words. You’ll need to select the word(s) that best complete the passage.For passages with one missing word, you’ll select the correct word from five choices. For passages with two or three missing words, each blank will have three possible answer choices. In all cases, you’ll select the word(s) you want to choose by clicking on them. For single-blank questions, this will just be from a list; for multiple-blank questions, you’ll have a table where each column represents your choices for a particular blank.Example QuestionHere’s an example of text completion from the ETS website so you can see what this looks like in action.Directions: “For each blank select one entry from the corresponding column of choices. Fill all blanks in the way that best completes the text.”Question: Vain and prone to violence, Caravaggio could not handle success: the more his (i)__________ as an artist increased, the more (ii)__________ his life became.Blank (i)Blank (ii)temperancetumultuousnotorietyprovidentialeminencedispassionateExplanationThe key phrase here is “Caravaggio could not handle success.” This indicates that the rest of the sentence is going to elaborate on how he handled success poorly. So the blank in the phrase “the more his <blank> as an artist increased” is going to be a synonym for “success.”Temperance is definitely wrong—it means “restraint” or “abstinence from alcohol.” That leaves “notoriety,” which means “fame,” but with a potentially negative implication (think “notorious”). It’s tempting, but “eminence”—fame with the implication of skill or success—is a better synonym for “success.”Since we know Caravaggio could not handle success, we are looking for a negative word to describe his life once he became successful for the second blank. “Tumultuous” (meaning “chaotic,” like a tumult) is the only choice that’s clearly negative. (“Providential” means “lucky”—think “providence,” like “divine providence”—and “dispassionate” means “detached.”) So, the correct answer is “eminence” and then “tumultuous.”GRE Verbal Tips for Text CompletionA really important thing for text completion is word valence. What do I mean by this? Word valence is whether a word has a positive or a negative tone overall. You can usually figure out whether a word should have a positive or a negative connotation from sentence context, even if you can’t exactly figure out the word is. For example, in the above question, in the first blank, “the more his _______ as an artist increased,” it’s pretty clear from context that this should be a positive word. This actually helps us pick between “notoriety” and “eminence” even though they have similar meanings—“notoriety” has a negative valence, while “eminence” has a positive one.If you aren’t familiar with a word in the list, try to think if you know any similar words.For blank (ii) above, you may not be familiar with “tumultuous,” but have you heard the word “tumult”? Or maybe you don’t know “providential,” but you know “providence” and you have a sense that it means protection or care. Any information you can leverage about words you do know can help you figure out the right choice when you aren’t totally sure what all the words mean.Word valence: you have two choices.GRE Verbal Reading Comprehension QuestionsThere are three kinds of reading comprehension questions: multiple choice, multiple-answer multiple choice, and select-in-passage. All reading comprehension example questions come from ETS and are based on the following example passage: (See passage and questions from ETS here).Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition, an approach that had been in hibernation in the United States during the 1960s, composer Philip Glass (born 1937) embraced the ethos of popular music in his compositions. Glass based two symphonies on music by rock musicians David Bowie and Brian Eno, but the symphonies’ sound is distinctively his. Popular elements do not appear out of place in Glass’s classical music, which from its early days has shared certain harmonies and rhythms with rock music. Yet this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music. His music is not a version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners; it is high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics.MULTIPLE CHOICEMultiple choice questions are pretty straightforward, at least in format.Example QuestionDirections: Select only one answer choice.Question: The passage addresses which of the following issues related to Glass’s use of popular elements in his classical compositions?Want to improve your GRE score by 7 points? We have the industry's leading GRE prep program. Built byworld-class instructors with 99th percentile GRE scores, the program learns your strengths and weaknesses through machine learning data science, then customizes your prep program to you so you get the most effective prep possible.Try our 5-day full access trial for free:Get a great GRE score. GuaranteedHow it is regarded by listeners who prefer rock to the classicsHow it has affected the commercial success of Glass’s musicWhether it has contributed to a revival of interest among other composers in using popular elements in their compositionsWhether it has had a detrimental effect on Glass’s reputation as a composer of classical musicWhether it has caused certain of Glass’s works to be derivative in qualityExplanationThis question wants to know what the passage says about “issues related to Glass’s use of popular elements in his classical compositions.” Let’s go through the answers to see if any are supported by the passage.Choice (A) says “how it [Glass’ use of popular elements] is regarded by listeners who prefer rock to the classics.” If you look back up at the passage, you can see that the passage doesn’t mention people who prefer rock music at all. Choice (A) can’t be correct; let’s move on. Choice (B) refers to Glass’ commercial success, but again, the passage doesn’t mention anything about Glass’ profits or popularity. Choice (C) discusses Glass’ effects on other composers. Other composers aren’t mentioned—just popular musicians Brian Eno and David Bowie.We are left with choices (D) and (E) as the only possible answers at this point. Choice (D) talks about Glass’ reputation as a composer. The passage doesn’t say anything explicit about his reputation; for all we know, everyone but the author hates Philip Glass. This leaves (E)— “whether [Glass’ use of popular elements] has caused certain of Glass’ works to be derivative in quality.” If you look in the passage, the author asserts about Glass’ symphonies based on works by Eno and Bowie that “the symphonies’ sound is distinctly his.” This does address whether or not the works are derivative by asserting that they are not. (E) is the correct answer.Tips for Multiple Choice Reading Comprehension Questions:Rely on evidence from the passage. This is the most important strategy for ALL reading comprehension questions. There might only be a few words in the passage that directly address the correct answer, as in the above question, where all we get on the issue of whether or not Glass’ works are derivative is the phrase that the “symphonies’ sound is distinctly his.” This is sparse—but it’s there, and it is responsive to whether or not his works are derivative. There will always be concrete evidence of some kind in the passage to support the correct answer. Don’t get tricked by answer choices that aren’t directly contradicted by the passage but that don’t actually have any evidence present—ETS loves to include choices like this.With that said, don’t try to absorb every detail of the passage on a first pass-through. We’ll discuss developing a strategy to address passages later in the article, but it’s far better to read passages for main ideas first and then look back at the passage for more details when you are trying to select the right answer.The sponge strategy of total absorption is actually not your best bet here.MULTI-ANSWER MULTIPLE CHOICEIn multiple-answer multiple choice GRE Verbal questions, you’ll be given three numbered choices and need to select all that apply.Example:Directions: Consider each of the three choices separately and select all that apply.Question: The passage suggests that Glass’s work displays which of the following qualities?A return to the use of popular music in classical compositionsAn attempt to elevate rock music to an artistic status more closely approximating that of classical musicA long-standing tendency to incorporate elements from two apparently disparate musical stylesExplanation:Since we need to pick each statement that applies, let’s consider each of them separately.First, does Glass’s work display “a return to the use of popular music in classical compositions”? If we look back at the passage, we can see that the very first phrase is “Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition” about Glass’s work. (A) is correct!Let’s move on to (B). Does Glass’s work display “an attempt to elevate rock music to an artistic status more closely approximating that of classical music”? You might think the answer is yes because Glass is an artistic composer who uses rock elements. But it’s critical that we actually look back at details in the passage. Then we’ll see that it says that “this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music.” If Glass doesn’t compose popular—i.e. rock—music, then he can’t be attempting to “elevate” rock music. He’s simply incorporating rock elements in classical music, which already has “artistic status.” So (B) isn’t correct.Moving on to (C), does Glass’s work display “a long-standing tendency to incorporate elements from two apparently disparate musical styles”? We know that Glass incorporates rock elements into his classical compositions. So he does “incorporate elements” of “disparate musical styles.” But is it a “long-standing tendency?” The passage says Glass “revive[d] the practice,” which had “been in hibernation.” This suggests that there was a history of combining musical styles. That could be described as a “long-standing tendency.” (C) is also correct. That leaves us with (A) and (C) as our answers.GRE Verbal Tips for Multiple-Answer Multiple-Choice QuestionsYou have seven possible answer choice combinationsfor these questions (A, B, C, A&B, A&C, B&C, A&B&C), but don’t be overwhelmed by this.Consider each statement individually and assess it on its own merits without considering any of the others. For other question styles, comparing answer choices is smart because there will be one best answer. For this kind of question, it’s much better to treat each statement as a mini-question of its own. Does the statement apply to the passage? Yes or no?For a statement to be correct,every part of that statement has to be correct. For example, in the above statement (C), we didn’t just have to determine if Glass combined disparate elements of two styles—we had to determine if there was a “long-standing tendency.” You have to consider all parts of each statement. Don’t ignore a single word!As in other reading comprehension questions, rely on what’s in the passage for evidence. If you have to make any logical leaps or inferences with no direct evidence from the text, it’s not the right answer.So does this mean that if I compose a rock opera they might include a passage about me in the GRE?SELECT-IN-PASSAGEIn select-in-passage questions for GRE Verbal, you will be directed toselect the sentence that best fulfills a particular criteria. Then you will literally click the sentence in the passage on your screen to select your answer.Example QuestionDirections/Question: Select the sentence that distinguishes two ways of integrating rock and classical music. [Note: in the actual GRE Verbal section, you will hover your cursor over the passage and click on the sentence you want].Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition, an approach that had been in hibernation in the United States during the 1960s, composer Philip Glass (born 1937) embraced the ethos of popular music in his compositions.Glass based two symphonies on music by rock musicians David Bowie and Brian Eno, but the symphonies’ sound is distinctively his.Popular elements do not appear out of place in Glass’s classical music, which from its early days has shared certain harmonies and rhythms with rock music.Yet this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music.His music is not a version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners; it is high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics.ExplanationThe key thing we are looking for here is a sentence with two ways to integrate rock and classical music. Let’s go through it sentence-by-sentence:The first sentence only talks about one way: “using elements of popular music in classical composition.”The second sentence continues to talk about this one way, just with a specific example.The third sentence continues to talk about one way—using popular elements in “Glass’s classical music.”The fourth sentence seems a little ambiguous at first—it mentions his use of popular elements has not made him a “composer of popular music,” which suggests a second option. But that doesn’t really delineate two ways of integrating rock and classical, just two kinds of composers—classical and popular.The last sentence, finally, presents two different ways of integrating rock and classical: a “version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners,” one way, is contrasted against Glass’s method of “high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics,” another way.Since the last sentence is the only one that really presents two ways to integrate rock and classical, it has to be the right choice.GRE Verbal Tips for Select-in-Passage QuestionsA key part of select-in-passage questions is choosing the best sentence. So if there are two sentences that both seem like they might kind of work, you need to assess which one answers the question in the most complete and direct way. Again, I can’t reiterate enough that using evidence from the passage is the essential reading comprehension strategy—you’ll know the best sentence because it will have the clearest evidence that it fulfills whatever criteria you need to select for.Similarly, when choosing a dog, choose the best dog.How to Study for GRE VerbalBefore you start preparing in earnest, there are two things you need to do: establish a baseline and set a goal score for the GRE Verbal Reasoning section.To establish a baseline, take a complete, scored Verbal section(that would be two subsections or 40 questions). I advise taking an entirePowerPrep test to set your baseline for the entire test anyways—it forms an essential part of any GRE study plan. But since we’re discussing Verbal right now, I’ll focus on Verbal. The Verbal score you get at the very beginning of your prep process is your baseline. Once you’ve established this baseline, you need to figure out a goal score.Your goal score for a given section just needs to be a high enough score to not be a barrier to admission. How do you figure this out? Look up the average GRE Verbal scores for all of the programs that you’re interested in. Take the highest number, add 1-2 points for safety, and that’s your goal score. You cansee more on setting a goal score here, including advice on what to do if your programs don’t give much score information.So once you’ve set a goal score, you can get a decent idea of how long you’ll need to study to bring your baseline up to your goal score. We have the following estimates for the hours it will take to improve a certain point amount:5 points = 40 hours10 points = 80 hours20 points = 160 hours30 points = 240 hoursSo if your baseline is 155, and you need to get up to 160, expect to spend about 40 hours studying.Once you’ve set a goal score, there are two overall prongs of attack you’ll need to consider when you prepare for the GRE Verbal section: content/skills (the underlying foundational material the GRE is testing) and strategy (how you actually approach questions and the overall test. We discuss how best to approach the two prongs below.No, I said two prongs, not two prawns!GRE Verbal Content and Skills PracticeThere are a few key content and skills areas to work on for GRE Verbal. We’ll detail each—and how to work on it—below.LEARNING GRE VOCABULARYA big part of GRE success is learning vocabulary. As you might imagine, it’s very hard to answer sentence equivalence and text completion questions if you aren’t familiar with any of the answers. Even beyond that, a strong vocabulary makes it much easier to parse the difficult passages you’ll be faced with for reading comprehension.Want to improve your GRE score by 7+ points?Check out our best-in-class online GRE prep program. Weguarantee your money backif you don't improve your GRE score by 7 points or more.PrepScholar GRE is entirely online, and it customizes your prep program to your strengths and weaknesses. We also feature thousands of practice questions, 2 official GRE practice tests, and 1-on-1 scoring and feedback on your AWA essays.Check out our 5-day free trial now:Get 7 More Points On Your GRE, GuaranteedThere are two parts to learning vocab: simple memorization and vocab-in-context. Both are critical parts of the vocabulary process.For simple memorization, your best bet is the friendly flashcard. We have our own flashcard PDF, as well as reviews of other flashcard sets you might consider. When you are drilling those cards, I recommendusing the waterfall method to ensure you’re really memorizing every word. If you want to be able to review your flashcards online, you can use Quizlet, although you can’t do the waterfall method with their interface so I recommend also making hard copies.You might think that after memorizing 1000 vocab flash cards that you’re all set. But that’s only part of the equation. You also need to make sure that you actually understand the words in context—so you know how to use them and how to understand them being used by others. This will also help you actually remember the words and what they mean.There are a couple things you can do to work on your in-context vocabulary. First, you can try writing out sentences with your vocab words to make sure you really know how they are used in context. You can also read high-level publications and make note of how the words you learned are used there. When you find yourself using the words in conversation or in writing fairly naturally, you know that you’ve really learned them.“Yes, I think Thor is indubitably the best Avenger!”READING COMPREHENSION FOR COMPLEX GRE PASSAGESAs you might imagine, the best way to improve your reading comprehension is to read a lot. But don’t just go for quantity—you should read things that are topically similar to what you’ll be faced with on the GRE. Try to read a diverse array of articles from publications with a high reading level like the Atlantic, the New York Times, the Economist, Nature, and so on. Because there are often science passages on the GRE, you can even try reading abstracts from scientific studies on PubMed. Can you figure out the main hypothesis and results of the study from the abstract, even if it’s in an area you aren’t familiar with?As you read articles, make sure you really understand what’s being said. What’s the main idea? What evidence does the author advance to support their position? Do they present any counterpoints? If you can understand the argumentative and rhetorical structure of complex articles, you’ll be all set for GRE Verbal Reasoning.IDENTIFYING SIGNAL WORDSSignal words and phrases tell youimportant contextual informationabout the sentence or passage—information that will help you select the correct answer. They are particularly critical elements for selecting the correct words in vocab questions, but can also help you quickly parse the meaning of complex passages.Signal words are usually transitions and indicate whether some previously presented piece of information is going to be supported, contradicted, clarified, and so on.Here are a few common groups of GRE signal words, what they signal, and a brief, simple example sentence:However/although – offering a caveat or mitigationAlthough the author was social by nature, he did not particularly enjoy book tours.Indeed/furthermore – offering further support or emphasisThe author was social by nature; indeed, he loved meeting hundreds of new people on book tours.By contrast/rather/instead – offering a different perspective, counterpoint, or purposeThe author was not social by nature; rather, he was forced into sociability by the necessities of book tours and signing.To practice your understanding of signal words, try to notice every time you think you see a signal word in what you are reading. Consider what the signal word is indicating.You might even keep a running list with the sentence, the signal word, and what it indicates in that sentence. Over time, you’ll develop your own base of signal word knowledge.This signal’s a pretty clear one, though.Study Tips for GRE Verbal Practice Questions and SectionsHere are my recommendations for using actual practice tests and questions to prepare for the GRE Verbal section.USE OFFICIAL MATERIAL WHEN POSSIBLEThe best material for Verbal practice questions will always beofficial ETS material. Since they make the test, their material is the closest to the real GRE experience. You can get complete official practice tests from the PowerPrep software, plus additional practice questions from their paper tests and online. (Check out our guide to the best Verbal resources out there.) You can also consider buying a prep book.TARGET YOUR WEAKNESSESWhen you complete practice GRE Verbal questions, tests, and sections, pay close attention to what you get wrong. The patterns of what you answer incorrectly will reveal anycontent or strategy weaknesses that you need to target to improve. Are you always missing sentence equivalence? Do science-themed passages confuse you? You’ll know to work on those things.PRACTICE PACING AND TEST STRATEGYIt’s critical that you practice staying on pace so that you can answer all the questions in the time allotted. To that end, be sure to take timed practice sections and monitor any areas where you’re losing too much time. In general, try not to spend too much time on vocabulary, since reading comprehension questions will naturally take longer due to the reading time involved.You also need to practice strategies for selecting the correct answer like working on your process of elimination skills.GRE pacing isn’t as fun as motorcycle race pacing, but it’s a similar concept.DEVELOP A CONSISTENT STRATEGY FOR PASSAGESIt’s critical that you come up with a strategy for approaching passages on the GRE that works for you. Having a consistent approach that you hone during prep will help you with time management during Verbal and increase your comfort level when faced with the GRE’s dense, complex passages.There are two solid strategies for approaching GRE passages and reading comprehension questions:Skim passage first: In this strategy, you’ll quickly skim the passage before reading the question. Then once you’ve read the question, you’ll look back in the passage for the details and evidence that you need to answer the question.Read question first: For this approach, you’ll read the question first, then read through the passage looking for the evidence that will tell you the right answer.Both of these strategies can work well for students and help them manage their time; making them work for you is mostly a matter of personal preference.Unfortunately, there’s also a third approach that, while commonly used, is not a good strategy. In this approach, you’ll closely read the passage first, trying to absorb every detail. Then you’ll read the question, and find that you still have to go back into the passage to find the answer. As you might imagine, this is an inefficient strategy that wastes a lot of time. Most of the details in the passage aren’t going to be important for an individual question, so getting too bogged down in trying to understand and remember them is totally unnecessary. If you’re going to read the passage first, just quickly skim it for the main points.My passage strategy is that I only read next to the beach.4 Common GRE Verbal Problems and How to Fix ThemIt’s critical to address your own particular weaknesses on the Verbal section, but there are a few weak points that are common to a lot of students. We’ve listed them below and suggested some ways to address them if they are issues that you have.Forgetting The Vocabulary You LearnedIf you find yourself forgetting large swathes of the vocab you drilled, it means you probably didn’t learn it in a very effective way (sorry). Did you complete both components of the vocabulary process mentioned above? Or did you just memorize without applying? Make sure that you have been both drilling flashcards effectively and learning vocabulary in context. See above for my recommendations on the best way to really learn and retain vocabulary.Running Out of TimeIf you are struggling to finish Verbal sections on time, the primary thing you need to do is figure out where you’re losing time. Are you primarily losing time on vocab, or reading comprehension? For vocab, it’s typically a waste of time to spend a long while agonizing over those questions—you typically either know the words, or you don’t. Read the questions very carefully and answer them to the best of your ability, but don’t spend 30 seconds staring blankly at the answers. If you find yourself doing this, try completing passage questions first, and then come back to the vocab.If, by contrast, you’re flying through the vocab questions but running out of time because you’re spending too much time on passages, yourapproach to passages may not be very effective. Are you spending too much time on your initial read-through? Are you overthinking what counts as “evidence” and overanalyzing every little word? Re-read our advice on passage strategy above for some tips on adjusting your approach.Of course, you could feel rushed because of a combination of vocab and reading comprehension issues, in which case, fiddle around with changing your passage strategy and answering vocab questions at a faster pace or after reading comprehension to try to figure out what works best for you.I, too, wish I had a rainbow hourglass to keep track of time for me at all moments.Being Torn Between Two AnswersThere is always a best answer choice on the GRE (except for multi-answer multiple choice, but then there’s no need to be torn!) If you frequently find that you can narrow your choices down to two, but then you can’t choose the final one, a couple things could be happening. If this is happening primarily on vocab questions, you may just not know the vocab well enough. Also be sure to consider word valence—based on context, does a positive or negative word belong in the blank? That can help a lot in differentiating answers.If this is primarily happening on reading comprehension, you need to hone your understanding ofidentifying evidence in passages.Only one answer will ever be correct based on clear evidence in the passage. This means you need to practice parsing the complex passages for the small details that point to the correct answer.Feeling Intimidated by GRE PassagesIf you find yourself doing well during low-pressure prep sessions but getting flustered by the long, complex passages during timed practice tests, work on staying calm. If all the practice test passages seem crazy-difficult , it’s possible that the material you’ve been reading isn’t difficult enough, or that you aren’t reading a big enough variety of sources. But it’s also possible that you’re just suffering from some test anxiety. In this case, maintain positive self-talk, take deep breaths, and know that you can do it.If you feel stressed, just think about adorable kittens.Taking the Test: 4 GRE Verbal Tips for SuccessWhen you actually take the test, here are some strategies to help you ace the Verbal section!Use Mark & Return LiberallyFriends, you get the same amount of points for easy questions as hard questions. What does this mean for your strategy? Do questions that you find easy first! If you look at a question or a passage and you think “ew, gross,” or you find yourself staring at it in blank confusion for more than a few seconds, mark that question and come back to it!Odds are that it will seem easier when you come back to it, and even if it doesn’t, at least you didn’t waste valuable time when you could have been getting easy (or at least easier) points.Answer Every QuestionThere’s no guessing penalty on the GRE, so it’s to your advantage to answer every question. Keep an eye on the time and when you have a few minutes left, quickly skim remaining questions and pick answers.When You Do Guess, Guess SmartTo the extent that you can avoid guessing randomly, you should. This means you should hone all of your educated guessing and process-of-elimination skills, then deploy them with a vengeance on the test! Every time you can eliminate a wrong answer, your chance of guessing the right one goes up.Keep Calm and Do What You PracticedDon’t get psyched out when you’re faced with the actual test. Trust that you’ve prepared all you can, and calmly implement all of your passage and question-answering strategies. Even if you feel like some questions are throwing you for a loop, maintain positive self-talk, take some deep breaths, and move on to another question. You can do it!Again, if you need to calm down, I recommend thinking about soft, adorable animals.2 Bonus Tips for a Perfect Score on GRE VerbalIf you’re really going for that 170 on Verbal, here are a couple additional tips to help you get there!Be Aware of What You Can Afford to Get WrongThe answer: not much. While a 170 on Quant usually requires a truly perfect raw score, though, you can usually get one question wrongand still get a 170 on Verbal. This leaves you with a very, very tiny margin for error.Laser in on Your WeaknessesIt’s always good to focus on your weaknesses when you’re preparing for a test, but if you want a 170, you need to pinpoint your weak points as exactly as possible. It’s not enough to know that you sometimes get tripped up by Sentence Equivalence—which Sentence Equivalence questions? Are you picking things that aren’t quite synonyms? Are you tripped up by multiple pairs of synonyms? To really figure out exact, specific weakness, you’ll probably need to do an enormous amount of practice problems so you can notice patterns in what you’re missing that are as specific as possible. Then, you can target those super-specific weaknesses and not be thrown on test day.I don’t advise including actual lasers in this process.Review: GRE Verbal Questions, Practice, and TipsHere’s what we reviewed in our total guide to GRE Verbal domination.There are five types of GRE Verbal questions:Vocab Questions:Sentence equivalence (choose two words that could both complete a sentence and give it a similar meaning)Text completion (fill in the blanks with the best word choices)Reading Comprehension Questions:Multiple-choice (choose the right answer)Multi-answer multiple choice (choose all correct statements)Select-in-passage (choose the right sentence in the passage)In preparing for GRE Verbal, your first step has to be establishing a baseline and a goal score. Then take the following steps.Review Content:Build your vocabularyGet comfortable reading complex materialLearn to identify signal wordsPractice:Use the best (official) materialTarget your weaknessesPractice pacing and strategy, like process-of-eliminationDevelop a strategy for passagesAddress Weaknesses:If you’re forgetting the vocab you learned, you probably aren’t drilling it very effectively.If you’re running out of time, you may be either spending too much time deliberating on vocab questions or your passage strategy isn’t very effective.Being torn between two answers is a sign that you need to further hone your vocabulary knowledge or your ability to pick out evidence in passages.If you feel intimidated by passages, it could be a sign either that you aren’t practicing difficult enough reading material or that you just have some test anxiety.Test-Day Success Strategies:Take advantage of mark & return to do the easier questions first and save the hardest ones for last!Answer every question—it can only help you.When you do guess, eliminate as many answers as you confidently can first.Keep calm and trust in the preparation you did!Extra Tips for a 170:Be aware of what you can get wrong and still get a 170. Usually, you can get one question incorrect and still receive that top score.When you’re prepping, laser-in on your weaknesses as specifically as possible.The bottom line is that if you follow good prep practices as outlined in this article, you can ace GRE Verbal!







First of all, I’m guessing by a high score you mean 330 - 340. Do not at all get afraid by all the propaganda that it is something extremely tough to achieve. It is not.I am not someone extraordinary. I failed countless, meaningless exams in my life. I have never been a topper or even close to that. So trust me, when I say, it is an extremely achievable target.Like any successful recipe, this also begins with some ingredients:Magoosh GRE Material (Verbal and Quants)Manhattan 5 lb. bookManhattan Mock Test Series (A set of 6 mock tests)Magoosh Flashcards (Available for free)Official ETS MaterialConfidence that you can do itGive yourself 2 - 3 months for preparation. Prepare a timeline.First things first, complete the Magoosh GRE Material videos. Both Verbal and Quants. They will take you quite some time. But they will be more than helpful in jogging old memories and clearing out the rust on those 10th standard mathematics that are already there but have been dormant being unused.Understand more importantly the process they are following to solve. Mathematics will follow straightforward logic, whereas Verbal might seem a little illogical at first, but really it is not. For Verbal it is VERY important to know the EXACT meaning of the words (Where constant practice from Magoosh Flashcards will help you) and also the structure and overall meaning of the sentence provided. Once you start getting the hang of it, you will start to understand the meaning and tone of the sentence, both in Reading Comprehension passages and Text Completions.Next, you MUST complete the ETS Official Guides, all 3 of them. There will be 2 mock tests provided in the book. Make sure you complete them and try to bring a score of +/- 2 from your target score. For example, for me the target score was 330, so I targeted for 328 - 332 in the ETS mocks.Next, the Manhattan 5 lb. book will be immensely helpful. Practice as much as you can each day. Doing BOTH Quants and Verbal. Complete the book by doing each and every problem and going through the answers that you did wrong or had confusion in. Also, make timelines (I did every alternate day) and give the 6 mocks one by one from Manhattan during this period. These mocks are a lot harder than actual GRE, so if you are scoring 318 - 322, expect a high score in GRE.Last but not the least, read, understand and memorize the words from Magoosh Flashcards. They will come extremely handy when you’re doing RC or TC.In the end, believe in yourself. Practice a lot and be confident of your ability. Most importantly, drink a lot of fluids! (Not just before the exam though - your washroom time is counted as the exam time except for breaks)Have a blast with the exam! All the best!







Well the GRE is a unique exam in the sense that you can't really “prepare” for it. There is no fixed pattern or repeated questions. What the GRE really tests is what you have learnt right from elementary school.For the verbal section, I'd suggest start reading magazines like the Scientific American or the Economist every day for a 30 min. Do this for atleast 2–3 months before your exam. I didn't rote learn any words. What I remembered was in what context the word was used. Trust me, this is a better way than memorizing words from apps and flashcards.For Quants, I used the Manhattan strategy guides. Go through them once and solve the corresponding sections in the Manhattan 5LB book. The 5LB book is good for verbal too.Finally, don't forget to solve atleast 5 mock tests because they'll build up your endurance. Trust me the GRE is really tiring.

1.ETS official guide to GRE revised General Test and Official GRE Practice QuestionsThe must-have books for any test-taker. No other publisher beats the questions coming from the people who make the test. The official guide should be your primary reference for understanding the types of questions in different sections.2. Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesThese books are awesome. First of all, the majority of them (6 out of 8) are devoted to math: Algebra, fractions, geometry, number properties, word problems and quantitative comparisons. The practice questions in Math are divided into three sections easy, medium and hard. There are also two books devoted to the verbal section: Reading comprehension and Text completion & sentence equivalences. The books dealing with verbal section consists of more challenging questions than what actually appears in the test. Keep in mind that these books aren't going to teach you math or English. Their sole purpose is to remind you about enough of the tricks required to do well on the GRE test. Another advantage of these books are that each of them comes with 6 online tests which I would definitely recommend taking. The interface is very similar to that of the actual test, and so is the difficulty.3.Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problemsBuy this book if you want to practice more challenging problems in Quant section.4.(Optional)Manhattan Prep LSAT Reading ComprehensionI had trouble with RC section from the beginning of my preparation. Even though this book is for a different exam, it actually teaches you how to approach a passage. This one helped me tremendously in improving my skills for tackling a passage. I would recommend this book only if you are facing serious trouble in the Reading comprehension section.For complete review of all the GRE books available in the market, check this linkNew GRE Book Reviews - Magoosh GRE BlogAll the best!

Thanks for the A2A!There are a lot of answers to this question and I can see most of them have covered the more popular books on the market. It makes little sense then to discuss books, instead let’s talk about the other resources available to you.GRE Diagnostic Tests: If you’re just starting your preparation, a good (free!) resource you should be taking advantage of is a diagnostic test. This will tell you where you stand currently and which areas require more focus. This is important because it’ll help you streamline your preparation and ensure you spend time only where time is needed.GRE apps: Another great resource I think should be mentioned are GRE apps. Considering how much time we’re likely to spend on our phones on a regular basis, this seems like a terrific option. Accessible anytime, anywhere. You could start with the GRE Test Prep app by Galvanize. It comes with hundreds of GRE questions, excellent explanations to answers as well as a system to track your readiness/progress. And it’s completely free. If you’re looking to hone your verbal skills in particular, there are apps for that as well. Ultimate Vocabulary Prep and GRE Flashcards are some of the more popular apps for the same.GRE forums: For invaluable information from your peers and experts all over the globe, a forum is an absolute no-brainer. You can post questions on anything GRE-related and hope to receive answers. These forums are curated to cater specifically to a GRE-curious crowd so you can be sure to find something of value whenever you need it. Some of the more popular forums include GRE Prepclub, thegradcafe, urch etc.GRE Videos: Make the most of all of the free videos available on YouTube that offer explanations and tips for topics ranging from Permutations & Combinations to Analytical Writing Analysis. Looking for ‘hacks’ on acing the GRE? There are videos for those as well.As you can see, aside from books, there are plenty of other resources you can and should rely on to give yourself the best possible chance at a high score.I hope this was helpful to you!Good luck!

GRE Preparation Books for General (Verbal & Quant)ETS’s Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test 2nd Edition: This book should be referred to by every student who is preparing for the GRE exam. Test takers recommend that aspirants should not even miss out on a single page while studying from this book. Published by those who have created the test, this book contains four, solved tests. Two of these tests are available on the CD-ROM. This GRE preparation book features extensive list of problems on Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning.Barron’s New GRE 19th Edition: This is also a well-written book for GRE preparation. It contains two full-length study models and one diagnostic test. The full length study models are designed on the actual structure as seen in the GRE exam. This book has included the revised study content which was developed by the test makers. The book authors have also provided insight into some important chapters as well as test overview for students to better understand how to attempt the test.Kaplan New GRE Premier: This is a comprehensive book to study for Verbal and Quantitative Reasoning. This book covers a wide range of practice problems, test taking tactics and strategies.Princeton Review: Cracking the New GRE as the book title suggests, this book aims at acquainting students with the revised GRE syllabus and includes detailed answers for all questions.Gruber’s Complete GRE Guide: This book has ample problems on Quant but only a few on Verbal Reasoning.Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy Guides: This is another must-have GRE preparation book for all test takers. The book contains 8, well explained, strategy guides for the test attempt.GRE Preparation Books for QuantMcGraw-Hill’s Conquering the New GRE Math: This book is highly recommended for beginners who can start with the basics of GRE maths problems.Nova’s Math Bible: This book is best to practice some tough, challenging math problems.1,014 GRE Practice Questions: This book contains some easy problems to solve.Barron’s GRE Math Workbook: This book is ideal to practice Quant problems.Kaplan’s New GRE Math Workbook: This book proves to be ideal book to start with basic math problems for GRE. However, you should not rely too much on this one when studying problems of an advanced level.Princeton’s Math Workout for the New GRE: Out of all reference books for GRE, this offers the most extensive problem solving for Quant.GRE Preparation Books for VerbalKaplan’s New GRE Verbal Workbook: This is the best book for Verbal problems. This book surely scores a point over Barron’s book, in terms of how vocabulary is applied to different question types. It provides an additional set of practice problems with different difficulty levels.Barron’s GRE Verbal Workbook: This book contains an exhaustive list of words at the backside. The author also sheds light on reading and comprehension strategies.Princeton’s Verbal Workout for the New GRE: This book provides insight into some proven strategies but contains basic practice questions.There are many resources available to help you prepare for this test. Considering that the GRE exam can impact your life’s decisions, it makes sense to choose a test prep book from people who actually put the test together. A high GRE score is critical to set yourself on your way to gaining admission to the school of your choice.There is no single perfect way to prepare for such an exam. There is also no one perfect preparation course or book. Everyone has a different way of learning and retaining information. So make the right choices of material and courses depending on your goals early on, and you will be fine!

To start, be sure to get ETS's Official Guide for GRE. For extra practice questions, ETS (the test maker) has a quant-only book and a verbal-only book, each with 200 questions. You'll also need a resource with some sort of instruction. The one that's best for you will be the one that best suits your learning style. We have a free GRE video course you might want to try. Finally,it's a good idea to have some kind of Study Plan. We have a free one here if you're interested - http://www.greenlighttestprep.co...Cheers,Brent

I will suggest you to get the following books.Manhattan Prep 5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems30 Days to More Powerful VocabularyGRE Prep by MagooshAll the best.







I recently took GRE. Got 330/340 after preparing for 20 days.I got 170/170 in Quant and 160/170 in Verbal. I learned words using Barron's 1100 words android application and Word power made easy(Norman Lewis).Barron's 1100 app link: Barron's 1100 - Android Apps on Google PlayWord power made easy: Buy the book, it's very cheap.I learned words from only these two sources and almost all the words on actual exam were covered in these two sources. Make sure that you do not simply cram the meanings. Try to understand the context.I think only learning these two sources in their entirety are sufficient for building a decent vocab for in GRE. I got a 113/120 in TOEFL too by only these too sources. If you have time, go for Magoosh flash cards App and learn only first two levels, leave the advanced one.One important part for preparation is to be able to apply what you have learned, for that you need a lot of practice. Buy Manhattan 5 pounds book. It has a lot for questions for practice. After learning the vocabulary, practice the questions from Manhattan book. Put more emphasis on RCs and Paragraph completion.For a good GRE score, one advice would be to maximize score in Quant. I used Barron's GRE book for revising basic mathematics concepts and used Manhattan 5 pounds for practice. Do not forget to prepare for the essay part; otherwise you will get an awful 3 like me!Good Luck for your exam.

The best way to prepare for the GRE if you are a beginner is to start well in advance. The word beginner is again relative. What you may consider as something very basic may not be for someone else.Before starting your preparation, you must do a SWOT analysis. Assess your strengths and weaknesses so that it will be easier for you to focus more on the topics you aren’t very comfortable with. Generally people are comfortable with the quants section and tend to struggle with the Quants section. If you haven’t booked a date for your exam yet, it is advisable to take the exam after 6 months of dedicated preparation.You need to know the following about the GRE exam before you start your preparation.The GRE exam has 3 sections the analytical writing section, the verbal section and the quants section.The analytical writing section doesn’t contribute to your GRE score so you needn’t break your head about it.The Quants and verbal section are for 170 marks each. The quants is the scoring section and you should ideally be looking to get 170/170 in this section. Anything more than 160 is a great score when it comes to verbal.You are expected to answer 20 questions in 30 minutes in each of these sections.Something that most of the people don’t know is that the GRE is actually only for 80 marks but the marks are awarded out of 320 so that we don’t assume that a person who scores a 40 is only half as good as a person who scores 80 so the scores are given on a scale of 260–340.Getting to the hardest part of it all PREPARATION:You needn’t prepare for hours together to crack the GRE.Most people find the Quants section easy so you should just be trying to brush up on your basic concepts. I would suggest you make your concepts concrete and don’t get carried away in cramming as many formulas as possible. Once you’re confident enough try taking up a mock test and see where you stand, analyze your mistakes and then go back to those topics and make sure that there isn’t an Achilles heel. Spend as little time as possible preparing for Quants and I don’t think it will take up a lot of time. 1 hour a day for a month and you should be good to go.The dicey section is the verbal section and it will definitely be the make or mar factor in your GRE since you may not be accustomed to the language used. The best way to prepare for the verbal section is to READ. The verbal section is predominantly vocabulary based and being thorough with vocabulary might just make the difference between you getting into an average institute or premier institute abroad.Please try to stick to the following schedule:Spend two hours each day for the verbal section of GRE and one hour for the Quants section.Make sure that your preparation doesn't take a back seat during the weekends or due to some occasion like a friend's birthday.First 10 days:1. Start reading a minimum of 20 pages of content every day. You can start by reading the sports column of the newspaper.2. Subscribe to blogs related to topics you find interesting. I recommend you join medium.com.3. Subscribe to a word a day and try to use the word as much as you can.4. Install Magoosh vocabulary builder from play store on your phone and complete learning the words from all the 7 basic levels and 5 intermediate levels. Keep revising what you have learned before you go on to learn new words.5. Revise all the concepts that you can be tested on in the GRE and solve as many problems as you can. ( Don't approach the problems using formulae. Try a logical approach unless you can solve it faster using a formula.)Note: Whenever you learn a word please try to learn all the possible meanings of the word with the context. Also, learn the antonyms and usage for each word.Reading shouldn't be considered as part of the 2 hours you spend every day for the verbal section.By the end of the first month, you should have:1. Increased the number of pages you read every day to 50.2.You should be thorough with Barron's 800.Please don't try to memorize words. Try to come up with foolproof methods to remember the meanings of the words.3. Solved all possible questions from the quants section, taken up mock tests, analyzed them, revised the concepts where you went wrong and solved a few more sums from the topics you are weak at.The MOCK LOOP with the ERROR LOG:Once you have covered all the bases it is important to put your skills to test. The ETS lets you take up two mock tests before your actual exam. Make sure that you utilize it since the scores that you get in these tests are very accurate i.e., if you take up the actual GRE exam your scores will only vary by 3 marks on either side of the score you obtained in the Mock test.Taking up the mock test at the right point of time is very important:If you take it up without properly preparing the scores that you secure might demotivate you. Ensure that you cover all the concepts and practice them time and again before giving the mock test. This will help you BOOST YOUR CONFIDENCE before the exam.Just taking the mocks won’t help you improve or maximize your scores unless you analyze the test in detail and figure out where you have gone wrong.Document your errors. Cover the concepts again and try to solve the same problem as well as other problems from the same topic until you are very confident that you will get it spot on in the examination.Few suggestions:Install the following apps on your Android phone1. Illustrate - The Video Dictionary. This application is free, and is available on various platforms, including the Apple App Store, Google Play Store, and soon, the Windows Phone Store.2. Pocket GRE Math.3. PrepGame.4. Magoosh vocabulary builder. (must have)5. Magoosh GRE Flashcards. (must have)Try conversing only in English with your friends and family. It's okay to make mistakes, that's how you will learn. It will also help you with your IELTS.Try writing: Try to summarize whatever you've have read each day and get it checked by an expert.Try watching a lot of English movies and tv shows with subtitles. You'll slowly improve your speaking and writing skills.A few of the following tips may come in handy:The GRE is a timed test: If we had all the time we need, then every one of us would get the perfect score on the GRE. But the GRE is a timed test, so it is important to not only be accurate but also quick when it comes to answering the questions. So when preparing for the GRE, time yourself. You are expected to answer 20 questions in 30 mins both in the Verbal and the Quants section. Attempt a lot of mock tests it will help you a lot.Be aware of the wrong answers:The wrong answers generally tend to fall under certain categories which will help you eliminate the wrong choices when it comes to the GRE verbal reasoning section or reading comprehensions.The choices are most probably wrong if they:Assume too muchAre beyond the scope of the passageAre too extremeAre true but involve outside knowledgeAre too specific/too broadSave the worst for the last:They usually say save the best for the last but it doesn’t hold good when it comes to the competitive exams like GRE. You will end up wasting time if you attempt the unfamiliar questions. If you find a question complex, it is better to leave it for the time being and improve your score by answering the questions related to the easier and familiar questions.Utilize the scratch pad:Take short notes while reading the comprehension passage in the space allotted. Eliminate the unnecessary details and words which are just present to throw you off.The following are a few tips that might come in handy when it comes to the reading comprehension but they might also be applied to any question in the verbal section.DUMB them down:Questions on reading comprehension passages have the most gray area when compared to any other type of question in the GRE.Avoid skimming through the questions without understanding what is specifically being asked. If you find a question or choice confusing rephrase the question in your one words.Be on the look out for concessions:In many cases, the author may have a strong voice towards a certain topic or aspect in the passages. The author might have a strong opinion towards certain aspects in a passage and argue for it throughout the passage but then the author might suddenly stop doing so and make subtle or drastic concessions to the opposing side which will weaken the arguments that were previously made in the reading comprehension passage. Make sure that you aren’t thrown by such concessions.Make use of the context:If the question asked is related to a specific line in the reading comprehension passage, it won’t help if you just go back and read the sentence. The thumb rule is to read at least one sentence before and after the aforementioned line.Zero in on the idea behind the longer passages:Majority of the reading comprehension passages that you will come across while taking the GRE will be short but on the off chance that you encounter one or two longer ones, it is advisable to focus more on the first and last paragraphs of the passage and find the big picture of the passage, since time is of the essence.Find the tone of the passage:The tone of the passage can be found using the choice of words or the turn of phrases used by the author. Even if the tone appears to be neutral, assume that it is complex and look for the tone. You can arrive at the tone by observing the diction or by asking the following questions:Does the author feel positively or negatively about a certain topic?What aspect of the topic does the author criticize?What concerns does the author raise through the passage?Which adverbs and adjectives does the author use to voice his opinion?Last but not the leastWatch your diet: An important factor which most students ignore to their detriment is their health and diet. This is very important both during your preparation and while taking the test. Ensure that you stick to a nutritious diet since you will need a lot of energy during your preparation. It is a good thing to avoid eating outside especially junk food, during your preparatory phase. Also, refrain from drinking, partying and taking recreational drugs a week or two before the Test day.P.S. If you are looking for study material I would recommend the following:GRE verbal prep - A definitive guideGRE Prep: Crack the Quantitative Reasoning SectionGre Prep: Crack the Analytical Writing Assessment Section EffortlesslyGood Luck!

I've just taken the test a couple months back, and let me assure you that the answer you might be looking for (not much time required) might be a right answer. I said might because it totally depends upon your existing knowledge and aptitude problem solving capabilities along with your reading habits and existing vocabulary. Verbal Section: Now, as I found out by taking the GRE twice, vocabulary is not the biggest deal that there is. Yes, I know this is contrary to what many people would tell you, but believe me, it's true. You don't need to take in all 4500 words to do well in the verbal section. What you really need is a good reading habit. If you're accustomed to reading The Hindu, The New Yorker, The New York Times, The Atlantic, Pacific Standards, et cetera, you would find the RC part of the GRE not as tough as it is perceived to be. You've got to have a healthy reading habit to do well in the verbal section. Let's auppose that you're not an avid reader, and that you hardly ever read newspapers. In this scenario, I'd advise you to start doing so first thing in the morning- well, after freshening up. And I'm not just talking about a newspaper or two, I'm talking about reading at least one newspaper (offline. Again, The Hindu is as good as it gets, especially here in India.)  and magazines such as The New Yorker, MIT Technology Review, The New York Times, The Atlantic, Pacific Standards, The Economist, The Verge, and a few really good websites such as Nautilus, Arts & Letters Daily. Do it whenever you can. I'd advise you to get up early in the morning and go for a run before rummaging through above sites and reading for at least 3 hours (try to go for editorials and read even the most boring article. It'll help a ton!) a couple months of following this routine (scrupulously) and you should be ready to take on the GRE verbal. Now, from where are you going to learn the new words for the GRE? The answer is, from the magazines you'll read (try maintaining a notebook with the words along with their meaning, usage in a sentence and synonyms.) and from 1100 words by Barron's, Manhattan 500 Basic and 500 Advanced flash cards, and  Magoosh GRE verbal flash cards app. I'd also suggest buying or downloading Manhattan 8 series books. They're amazing and cover literally everything.I know it's a lot of work, but with gusto, it's not that big a baggage, but fun.Quantitative Section:Manhattan 5lbs book. Hands down! Your ultimate guide to get into the late 150 and early 160. To push further, you're gonna have to give a lot of mock tests and solve ETS' guide for GRE. ETS is a must buy. If you're comfortable with the quant part, I'd say a couple weeks should suffice. But still, take 3.5 to be on the safe side and to avoid rushing through the exercises. Manhattan 8 series books will also help you here with concepts.AWA: Now, with the help of 8 series guide's and ETS' guidelines and the topics given in their site, you should be able to nail this one if you are into writing or reading. Practice it for a week or so and you're ready for it. It's quite fun, to be honest. Most importantly, don't lose hope, gusto, and be focused. And, maintain a time-table. Good luck.

GRE PREPARATION STRATEGYTry to follow this Chronological GRE Preparation Strategy~First of all take a Diagnostic Test, available at ETS. Analyse your Scores.This Score will give you an idea of your strengths and shortcomings. You should plan and devote time for your GRE preparations accordingly.The GRE Quant tests your basic level of Maths, Specially for Engineering students. You should aim for a full score 170 in Quantitative section. This would help in increasing your overall score.The main area of Concentration is the Vocabulary and RC in the Verbal section.You should Download these two Apps for your iOS/Android device- Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flashcards & Barron's 1100 Words. These are well organised Apps for GRE Vocab Building.An average student needs 300 hours of GRE Preparation to aim for 300+ Scores (I'm not considering the Super Kids who write GRE in 15/20/30 Days & get 320+ Scores). You should calculate you time that can be spared in Weekdays/Weekends for GRE prep. This way you can estimate your tentative date for GRE Exam. Generally 3–4 months time is enough for Preparation.Spare another 20–30 hours for writing Full-length tests, in the last week of Preparations.Some Important points to Consider before GRE PreparationsYou should do initial research for Specific MS programs. Shortlist Universities in Ambitious & Safe categories. Check their required GRE scores & plan your Preparations accordingly.Start your GRE Prep at least 8–9 months before the start of Application window. So even if you don't get your desired score, then also you have enough time to rewrite it.By the time of your GRE exam you should be in a position to shortlist the Four Universities where you are going to send your Official GRE score for Free. Else you will land up shelling extra $ for sending your Official score.Remember you need another Substantial time to complete the other parts of Application like Transcripts, SOP, LOR etc.If you are looking for Financial Aids & Scholarships then you should be able to apply at the earliest (Preferably when the Application Window opens). Earlier applications gives you a lot of Funding opportunities & it's it's for you to take decisions in picking up the best admits (College Reputation & the Financial Aids).I would Not suggest you to have a Counselor before your GRE scores. However you can join a GRE Coaching (Weekend/Online) if needed.“Don't Practice until you get it Right; Practice until you can't get it Wrong !”All the Best. Keep Rocking!~ Dr SSR.

I would recommend beginning with a practice test to get a sense of where you are relative to where you want to be. One of the two free and official tests available with the Power Prep II software is your best option. You should also take the time to set very specific goals. One of the worst mistakes that many students make is going into the GRE looking to do "the best they can." Research the programs where you want to apply and find out the median GRE scores of accepted applicants. This is important because if you need to break a specific score plateau to get into the program and schools you want, then you should set your score goals accordingly. If you need a 160 on each section of the GRE, it can be a great disservice to try to score a 170. Rather than spreading yourself too thin trying to get everything right, it makes the most sense to set specific targets of right answers that correspond with your score goals. Thus, if your score goal corresponds to roughly 15 right answers out of every 20 question section, then you should make it priority #1 to find and answer 15 questions correctly in every section. That's not to say you shouldn't answer every question but you should recognize that you can afford to get 5 wrong and if you don't know how to approach a particular question on test day, you might be best served guessing it quickly and banking the remaining time into other questions where you have a better chance at a right answer.Once you have baseline scores in hand and know what kind of improvement you need to do, the next step is to tackle the fundamentals. Most of the facts and formulas tested on the GRE are on the Quant side so most GRE study plans tend to be a bit lopsided in favor of the quant. That's because there are lots of arithmetic, algebra and geometry facts and formulas that could be tested on. They aren't all tested equally, however, so make sure you pay attention to high yield concepts like ratios, classic quadratic equations and special right triangles. From the beginning of your course you should also make a point of studying high frequency vocabulary words. Most GRE books and websites will have a list of 100 to 500 words that you should master. Six weeks won't make you a vocabulary whiz but you can fill in some of the more glaring holes in your word knowledge. You should spend at least your first two weeks on the content. If you find it's taking much longer, you may have to postpone taking the test because without the fundamentals there's no point in going further.Once you have got the content down the next step is to transition into test strategy. You should master the various ways of answering multiple choice questions like plugging in numbers and working backwards and look for ways to employ these strategies. It can help to answer the same question in a few different ways and compare. As you do this, it is critical to remember that the GRE is mainly a reasoning test, so you should always try to think first and employ logic and avoid just jumping into rote calculation. This middle period is also the time to start working through your solving methods for some of the most common word problem types: overlapping sets, rates, weighted and unweighted averages, combined work, inverse variation and others. The GRE heavily favors word problems and so learning how to solve stereotypical problem types will lead directly to points.On the verbal side, you should make a point of establishing timing guidelines for reading comprehension passages and questions. You should also learn the various types of questions that come with reading comp and the trap answers that accompany those question types. This knowledge doesn't take that long to acquire but recognizing question types, employing the proper techniques for answering them and avoiding common trap answers is a skill perfected only with extensive practice. You should also give yourself at least a few days of study to learn and master the logical reasoning questions. These are very different from standard reading comp, though they are usually lumped in with them. I find that most GRE prep books don't provide enough logical reasoning instruction or practice, so you may want to investigate some GMAT or LSAT critical/logical reasoning resources, since these question types are virtually identical to what you will find on the GRE and they have been staples of the GMAT and LSAT for years.  The stage of strategy learning and mastery should take you about two more weeks.  In the final two weeks, you should transition into full practice. Of course CAT practice tests are the gold standard for practice but they are also harder to come by and you should plan when you take them carefully. You should take the second Power Prep test either halfway through your training or a week before you take the test, since it's so valuable. If you need more computerized practice, check out the online or CD Rom resources that come with your books. Paper tests aren't the best option but can be helpful if you are able to be strict with your timing.One of the best ways to practice without using up your resources too quickly is the 5 question drill. In general your timing needs to be flexible on the GRE as some questions will simply take longer than others to solve. That said, you should maintain an average speed per question. The 5 question drill is a compromise between those two divergent aims. For the quant section you should complete 5 questions every 10 minutes and for verbal every 9 minutes. How you use that 9 or 10 minutes is up to you, so long as you complete the string by the end of the timing--even if that means guessing the questions for which you have no idea. So a great way to practice timing and strategy is to continuously work through strings of 5 questions in the required timing until you get a feel for the general pacing of the test and the types of tough in-test decisions you'll have to make to succeed. You should also use these drills to really put a heavy focus on accuracy and avoiding careless mistakes. Make sure you are reading questions carefully, calculating carefully and considering alternative solving strategies when your chosen solving method seems too long and involved.As you approach the test, make sure you spend some time on areas that you may have neglected. Practice your strong areas so that you can keep your confidence high and avoid being rusty in these areas. Choose your templates and timing guidelines for the essays. Make sure to practice the sentence completions, particularly questions on which you don't know all of the words and have to work around tough vocabulary--as this will happen on test day. You should begin to visualize the conditions of the test itself: the testing center, the order of the test (essays first, then the 5 quant and verbal sections), the clunky onscreen calculator you will have. Try to take your last practice tests in a computer lab or library to more closely recreate this experience. In the final days make sure you have your admission ticket and know how to get to the testing center. Finally, don't study the night before the test--get good rest and review your mental game plan.

The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is a test of your overall performance in terms of your quantitative aptitude, English language proficiency and analytical writing skills. The quantitative section deals with your high school math fundamentals. Questions from your basic math are asked in a brain teasing way. Tackling this section with ease requires lots of practice. The most important constraint is the time. You will have to solve the paper within the allotted time. The following information provides you with a detailed insight into the quantitative section along with some useful math tips that will help improve your score. Areas of concern for GRE quant sectionThe GRE Quant Section concentrates primarily on 4 major areas namelyArithmeticAlgebraGeometryData analysisOne should not anticipate direct and easily solvable questions in the Math section of the GRE paper. You will be asked questions from the above mentioned concepts in a twisted fashion. These questions take much of your time if you are not prepared well. The questions might involve a single concept or else might be based on more than one concept. Usually, the questions asked are the ones involving more than one concept. The crux of the given problem involves simple logic and if you are one among those who strike the right chord, you will surely be successful. For such ability, you will require lot of practice and some tips to improve your aptitude and save time. GRE Quantitative tips will help you a lot.ArithmeticUnderstanding the number family such as prime, positive, negative, even and odd numbers is the key to scoring in Arithmetic’s.Familiarity with elementary mathematics such as ratios, decimals, percentage, probability, etc could be established through preparative materials such as Kaplan’s Maths Guide and workbooks.The various rules associated with logical reasoning could be written down and reviewed periodically as logical reasoning always has an upper hand in solving these problems more easily when compared to formulas.AlgebraPractice should be initiated with simple questions followed by challenging problems.Basic algebra concentrates on variable manipulations and simplifying equations.Scratch paper must be used to solve these problems rather than attempting to solve them in your head. This technique avoids confusion and increases speed.Changing signs are the areas of common mistakes to look out for in Algebra. Continuous practice and clear understanding of concepts resolves these problems.GeometryYou could begin by mastering primary planar geometry involving lines, angles and basic shapes. Geometric formulas for basic calculations should be memorized.Diagrams must always be constructed for these types of questions. Illustrations are always a shortcut to solving geometry problems efficiently in lesser time than required.DataAnalysisData Analysis includes questions from statistics involving mean, median, mode, frequency distributions, charts, tables and graphs.Tackling these questions begin with scanning through the presented data to get a fundamental idea and focusing only on the conditions required for answering the questions.It is mandatory to keep an eye open to characteristics such as axes of graphs, units of measurements and orders of magnitude to avoid common conversion errors.More the practice, better are the chances of scoring in these questions.You can also watch my videos https://www.youtube.com/channel/... Or you can visit my website for excellent online course for GRE at www.catking.in







Hello there, As suggested by the other posters, there are multiple options for test prep in Bangalore. At the end of the day, how effective a program is boils down to a few key things.Teaching philosophy of the institute (do they only cater to high scorers, or do they only focus on strategy etc.)Expertise of the trainers (have they been taught to merely deliver a templated course or are they people who have taken the tests themselves and have mastery over the subjects)Quality of the courseware and the computer based tests you receive.When you’re picking a coaching program, figure out the following things:1. Sit through a session of the teacher you are likely to study under (as a demo).2. Ensure that the Study materials are industry standard; you don’t want to be practicing / learning from a spiralled copy of the CAT / GATE tests - you won’t see good results through that.3. Seek word of mouth4. Check out their policy on post-class support. Will teachers provide support up to the day of the test, or will they abandon you as soon as their classes are done?5. Make sure that the practice resources and full length tests emulate the actual GRE. Again research online to find this out.If you find that a training program checks off all these items, then go ahead and enroll. You’ll definitely see improvements in scores. At the end of the day go with what your ‘gut’ tells you after evaluating all those aspects discussed!That said, I am cofounder of PlusPrep, a test prep company. These values form our core principles and we strive to provide the best in world preparation experience and mentorship to each of our students at affordable prices. Do get in touch with us if you want to have some of the best teachers in India work with you on your GRE preparation!Godspeed!

In my opinion Byjus is the best for Gre preparation.The best of byjus is the teachers who teach you the course. They are themselves the toppers in Gre exams. Verbal part is taken by P.N.SANTOSH who has got 338 out of 340 in Gre Exam and He is having a mathematical approach to solve the Reading comprehension section. He know how to take you from the basic to the very high level. Byjus classes is using the technology well, if technology is available why you want to waste it. You will not get this kind of teachers anywhere in other coaching institutes. If you are a person who is self motivated then you join byjus as you will not be having anyone to monitor your performance . If you want someone to push you always join other institutes.Join byjus if you want to learn lots of shortcut techniques and bell the Gre Exam.

I would not recommend joining a coaching center for GRE preparation. Prepare on your own. All they do is teach you some strategies which can be learnt by going through any one of the quality books available in the market.Concepts:I would personally recommend Manhattan series(8 books) to cover all the concepts, strategies and the different types of questions for both quants and verbal.Practice:Quants:Manhattan 5lbOfficial GuideOnce you finish 5lb and OG, you can try Nova. If you finish Nova and have plenty of time with you, then you can solve pretty much any book that you can get your hands on.Note: GRE quant is easy but very tricky after a certain point, that is, if you perform well in the first section. If a question is taking you a lot of time then, probably, it means that you are doing it the wrong way. It is very important to approach a question correctly so that it can be solved in the least amount of time possible. The only way this can be developed is via practice. You can also refer to GMAT books(GMAT Official Guide, Manhattan GMAT guide etc) to help you with this as GMAT quants are generally trickier compared to GRE. Also, keep a tab on your mistakes and avoid making the same mistake again.Verbal:Manhattan 5lb, GMAT OG, GRE OGWords: Use Magoosh appDo not concentrate on mugging up words. Instead, read articles from quality sources such as The Economist, NYT, etc. It will help you develop your vocabulary as well as stamina to grasp long and dense passages. Coming to sentence completion, it is vital that you carefully choose the options that make the most amount of sense and fit the context. If you just blindly mug up words, it will NOT help you in this section. You have to read the sentence first and choose words that fit the context. You will develop this only with practice and reading articles from aforementioned sources.Long story short, the more you read and practice from quality sources the better you will be in this sectionFull length Tests:Lastly, I would advice you to give at least 10+ full length tests. Believe me, this is one of the most critical aspect of preparation for the GRE.P.S: If you really want to join a coaching center, I would recommend you Magoosh. Not only do they provide you with quality strategies and tutorials but also tons of questions along with video explanation for each of them.Moreover, they cover all the topics unlike many of the books available in the market. It's really worth it.BEST OF LUCK!!

TL;DR - Go for GREedge.Now the long story.Before getting into the debate of which coaching institute is best for GRE, let us look at the ingredients of a good GRE score.Start with a diagnostic test.Just like a medical test, a diagnostic will help you identify your weaker areas in GRE. It will tell you where do you stand in your preparation. The score you get in a diagnostic test is what your current GRE score would be. Don't worry if your diagnostic store is low. This is just the start point of your preparation. You got work to do from here.Make a proper study plan.GRE isn't as gracious as your semester exams when it comes to scoring good marks. Only proper practice and preparation will take you there in the GRE. Hence an organized study plan. Keep your diagnostic test score and target score in mind and prepare a proper study plan. Make sure you make a plan that doesn't disturb your daily routine (college or work)Review your progress frequently.Divide your preparation in sessions of an hour or two. Have targets of finishing a certain portion every session. Once you finish the session, review your performance thoroughly. Identify the mistakes and rectify them (very important). Find out the solutions to the questions you were unsure of. Then practice again. Keep a check on how you are progressing.Make your learning fun. Use picture based wordlists.Sooner or later you are going to get bored of your preparation. So it is always recommended that you make your learning fun. Don't go for those long & boring alphabetical wordlists. Picture based wordlists will help. It will make your preparation enjoyable. This way, you'll keep yourself motivated for a better score.Take as many practice tests as possible.GRE is an online adaptive test. The difficulty level changes with your performance. You need to get used to the GRE like interface even before you take the exam. GRE style tests and practice tests a good way experiencing the GRE before the actual GRE. It will give you a hands-on experience of the exam, which is very important especially in GRE.Get guidance from an expert.For things like AWA, you'll be needing the help of an expert. Because let's face it, one cannot evaluate his own essays. An expert has to look at it and give you suggestions and tips on how to improve your essays. You'll hardly find AWA tips in any books and most coaching classes ignore the AWA section. A good score in AWA is of high significance during admissions. Spend some extra time and effort on it.These are the basic requirements of a good GRE score. If you follow these steps properly, reaching your target score will be a walk in the park.Btw, one such institute I can think of, which provides all the above, is GREedge. Good thing is that they are online and you can study any time you want, anywhere you want. Moreover, they provide personal trainers, who will monitor your progress continuously.It saves travelling time and doesn't interfere with your work or college.Your Step by Step guide to GRE SuccessThanks for the A2A Divya Nadhella :)

If u prefer self study and looking for good study materials for your prepartion that can fetch u a good score in GRE then have a look on the below mentioned materials.I assure the quality of the materials is top notch.Pdfs include:-1 - The Princeton Review - Cracking the GRE premium 2018 edition2 - Manhattan latest - 4th edition (8 books)3 - Barrons new GRE 19th edition4 - Kaplan GRE preparation 2019 - latest edition.5 - Grubers Complete GRE Guide - 4th edition.6 - ETS official Guide to GRE7 - ETS Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning practice questions8 - ETS official GRE verbal practice questions9 - ETS GRE BIG Book which include 27 test with answers.10 - Manhattan preparation GRE Flash cards (1003 pages)11 - 501 series which include:-501 Critical reasoning questions501 Reading comphrension questions501 Grammar and Writing questions501 Sentence completion questions501 Synonyms and Antonyms Questions12 - GRE verbal made easy by barron13 - Word lists by majortest. com (15 pdfs)14 - Common error in english usage15 - Manhattan prepartion 5lb book of GRE practice problems.16 - The Ultimate Guide to GRE Alzebra which include 700 real GRE questions with lucid analysis.Arithmetic which include 1250 real GRE questions with detailed explanation.17 - Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flash Cards.18 - Master the GRE CAT by Acro Petersons.19 - Wren and Martin20 - RS Agarawal Quantitative aptitude21 - ETS paper based revised GRE practice Book.22 - Mcgraw's Hills GRE premium total test preparation program 6 practice tests.23 - Novas GRE maths Bible24 - Word Power made easy25 - SP Bakshi objective General English26 - Kaplan GRE writing wokbook- 3rd edition ( 844 pages)27 - 15000 useful phrases.28 - Magoosh Complete Quant covering 900+ questions with detailed answers.29 - 501 Word analogy and Writing Prompts.30 - GRE flash cards31 - 3 model question papers of GRE by Ramki's Ultimate Guide.32 - Magoosh 580+ Quant Questions with answers33 - Barrons GRE high frequency 333 words Vocublary list.34 - 100+ Novels35 - English Grammar secrets by Caroline Brown and Pearson Brown36 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Advanced words Flash cards.37 - Kaplan GRE verbal book38 - The Princeton Review word smart for the GRE.39 - Memory techniques by Krupa40 - Magoosh basic Quant,verbal,Awa etc videos.41 - The Ultimate Guide to Analytical Writing which include:-* Essays on Issues - Lesson and Model essays on 50 Topics* Essays on Arguments - Lesson and model essays on 10 topics.42 - Sample SOP and LOR43 - list of Universities which accept GRE.44 - Barrons Audio Vocabulary ( 14 audio clips)45 - Kaplan writing topics46 - ETS mathematical conventions for the Quantitative Reasoning Book47 - The GRE uncovered - Introduction to GRE by Manhattan48 - Flash cards of Barron 320049 - Magoosh 1000 pdf of common high Frequency words.50 - 501 Quantitative Reasoning questions with answers51 - 1000 Reading comphrension1000 Sentence correction52 - RC 99 by Aristotle53 - Ace the GRE writing Assessment by Acro Petersons54 - VISA Preparation55 - Vocabulary with Pictures56 - KAPLAN Quantitative Reasoning57 - Cliffs Test preparation GRE CBT ( 6th edition)58 - Guide to Geometry which include 8 identified categories with 1240 authentic examples.59 - Barrons GRE common prefix with meaning and illustrations.60 - Ample amount of practice materials for AWA and verbal.61 - Aristotle GRE verbal GRAIL.62 - Nova's GRE prepartion course63 - Princeton new GRE verbal workout64 - Ramki's The Ultimate Guide to Verbal reasoning which include:-Reading comphrension - 380 real GRE questions with answersText completion - 435 real GRE questions with answersSentence Equivalence -120 real GRE questions with answers65 - Magoosh Complete guide to Vocabulary66 - Barrons 6 GRE practice tests.67 - Kaplan GRE Premier with 6 practice tests.68 - ETS GRE general Test Practice book69 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Maths flash Cards (998 pages)70 - GRE full tests for Practice ( 36 Tests with answers)71 - 1014 Practice questions for the new GRE by Princeton Review72 - Manhattan New text completion supplement73 - A student's introduction to English Grammar by Rodney Huddleston and Geoffre K Pullum.I am selling the above mentioned materials at a very nominal amount of Rs 200.U can pay through any of these mobile wallet:- Paytm,Bhim, Phonepe,Tez etc.So interested one (only Indians) can ping me on Whatsapp 7737428150.

I suggest you to first check out Magoosh GRE, before looking for coaching centers. Continue reading and you’ll know why I’m suggesting you Magoosh as best GRE prep.From the above screenshot you can see that you get Realistic Score Predictor (my friend had scored exactly as predicted by Magoosh) along with timing. They have more than 200 lessons and 1000+ questions with video explanations for each, which you can watch as many times as you want. All the lesson videos range from basic concepts till advanced level required for the test. The number of questions appearing from each topic will be clearly mentioned so that you can practice that specific topic more and score high.As you can see in the above image, you can even customize your Unlimited Practice Sessions/Tests.For practice sessions, you canChoose section ( Verbal/ AWA / Maths)Select subjects/topics as per your wishYou can even select difficulty level as Adaptive — just like in real GRE. It even has easy/medium/hard difficulty levels.You can select from different question pool like Unanswered, Answered, Incorrect or Flagged.You can flag questions/lessons while practicing.Select Number of questions for a practice session.Practice with/without time limitation.Select Quiz Mode/Practice Mode.From the above features you can focus in which ever topic you want, whenever you want. You can’t get all these advantages if you go for coaching centers.For every question, you get all the options that you can see in the above screenshot. You can compare your pacing with others’ pacing. It even has an on screen calculator/ timer — just like in real GRE. Each and every video lesson and question explanation video has option to take notes which will be helpful during revision. They even clarify doubts through emails if you have any doubts regarding any question. If you are willing to pay some money, they even have one-on-one session to train you.They have amazing flashcards which have lots of words arranged according to difficulty/frequency level. The flashcards feature is completely free and you can even use in from computer/mobile. They even have android and IOS apps using which you can practice even during commute/whenever you want.To help memorize all those words, I use Mnemonic Dictionary.You can try all the Magoosh features completely free for 7 days and then decide if online course / offline coaching institutes suits you. To get it completely free for 7 days, click on the above link and click signup/try it now. Then, click on “free trial” that is just below premium plans.I hope my answer helped you.







Anybody can score 330+ in GRE. I followed a 3 week preparation plan.It is important to understand that the GRE is very different as compared to the other exams we are used to giving, talking from an Indian’s perspective. Blind hard work will not serve any purpose and sometimes will be counterproductive.ETS (the company that conducts the GRE) wants to convince you that your score is a measure of how good you are at ‘critical thinking’, but in reality it is only a measure of how good you are at giving the GRE. So, fortunately for us, the more you practise in the correct way, the better you become at giving the GRE.The Correct Way (in my experience) :Quality > Quantity. Always. Please do not spend 10+ hours a day mechanically solving problems and forgetting about them as you move forward. This will cause you to plateau at a certain skill level. The key is small incremental improvements.For me, the ideal way was a simple 3 step process :1.	Solve problems in small sets, around 20(+5 || -5) questions per set.2.	Check your answers. See the solutions, understand them thoroughly.3.	After checking all, recap the questions you got wrong, why, and what you learnt from them. This is extremely important.Let’s jump into the schedule now, shall we?Pre-prep phase (1 week) :Okay, I lied, it’s not really 3 weeks, but this pre-prep phase won’t take more than two hours of your time per day, and what’s more, you can easily do this while you eat or just before sleeping.What is to be done? Words, Words and more Words.Spend this week learning the words from the following apps :1.	Barron’s 11002.	Magoosh Flash Cards (around 1000 words)3.	Manhattan Essential Words (around 500 words)Vocabulary is essential to understanding the Reading Comprehensions as well as the sentence completions, so please complete this before moving ahead!Week 1 :Congratulations! The boring part is done. This week, let’s do :1.	4 Practice Tests2.	Practise each type of question in isolation. For example, do 20 Text Completions in one set. This will help you to identify weaknesses to work on.3.	Brush up all the shortcuts and maths formulae that you encounter.(Online Magoosh article exists)Week 2 :This week, let’s move forward with :1.	6 Practice Tests.2.	Do mixed practice sets now (All types of problems together), to simulate the actual GRE scenario.3.	Strictly time your tests and practice sets. Keep 5 minutes per section as a buffer. Identify which type of questions you are slow at. Work on them.Week 3 :Buckle up, this is your final lap :1.	8 practice tests.2.	Start reading AWA essays online, as well as general structuring tips. A lot of video material is available online. Practise a few essays if necessary.3.	Revise the Vocabulary words and mathematical formulae.At the end of this schedule, you should be ready to face the GRE. So be confident, sleep well before the paper and ohh, don’t forget to carry a jacket. It’s freezing in there.Thanks for reading! Please do upvote if this helped you.

Hey,I have recently taken GRE for the first time on 25th August . I scored 319 with Verbal: 151 & Quant: 168. Though it is not pretty good score but I made it without any tuition classes ,just by self-preparation. So if you are taking any tuition classes then it may not be the best answer that you are looking for.I am one Electrical Engineering student so writing GRE is a whole different experience for me than a student of Arts or Economics.If you do belong to Engineering or Science background then it may not be a hurdle for you to get 165+ in Quant section.For Quant section I only followed ETS Official Guide . It has lots of good examples which literally can help you gain clear idea about GRE maths. So first start with this book , study and solve all the problems in Maths Review Section. GRE maths are basic maths from class 9 or 10. So you will find no uncommon topic but only one. That’s a chapter containing concepts of SD , ND ,Percentile .For that Magoosh will provide a great support. GRE Math: Percentiles and Quartiles - Magoosh GRE Blog .Now for Verbal section you have to plan a schedule. For general students of Science background have problems in Verbal section. For that generally people start to remember as many words possible. But here I will suggest not to go for Barron’s 3500 or Nova’s 4000. As these all were quite helpful for OLD GRE. Revised GRE does not test your stock of words rather it tests your ability to use and understand the context of quite normal words. Here for that a list of 1000 words will play a great role. Generally Magoosh’s 1000 is recommended but you don’t even have to complete 1000 words just do Common and Basic words and ignore Advance Words.If you are having more than 2 months then start to remember the words as soon as possible because you have to revise them everyday . Start to remember 20–30 words a day. Then try to use all these words in daily conversation or text writing . Your friends may end up calling you a scumbag think that you are showing you vocab stock but believe me it literally gonna help you a lot. If you do minimum 25 words a day you will complete all Common and Basic Words (650) in 25 days.If you have a strong vocab you can easily score good in SE & TC section. Now you have to go for RC & CR practice. For this you can always go with Manhattan 5lb. book but make sure you are not taking this book as a level of GRE just because some of the questions in RC section are way too easy where some can be real pain . Questions are not distributed properly.But still it has lots of good passages which gonna help you a lot to build you reading habit if you already are not a avid reader like me :) Manhattan book’s SE and TC section is way too vague as it collects all the rough and obsolete words from dictionary and put them in a question. So you may not find any confidence solving this.So summing up the whole point start preparing for GRE with remembering words from Magoosh List or Magoosh flashcard app. Then go for RC and CR.Last thing is writing Mock Tests. There are lots of test available most of them are free. But make sure you are not writing any irrelevant test as it either gonna hinder your confidence or gonna over estimate your scores. Start with ETS power prep 1 followed by some 5–6 other test and end this rally of exams with ETS power prep 2 .For AWA section write few Arguments and Issues from ETS pool . And to create your strategy read as many as AWA possible from GRE SAT LSAT GED TOEFL MCAT ACT IELTS GMAT Test PrepGRE is not at all a tough exam I cracked it with 20 days attentive preparation.I was blessed that I never needed to solve maths .But the main thing is practice. I regret not practicing much verbal questions from books . You please don’t run the same mistake.Hope this helps :)

Firstly, there is nothing as “clearing GRE” …. There is no pass or fail. What you have to make sure is you get good enough score that can get you admitted in your favourite university. Generally, a score above 320/340 is qualified as a good score, and 330+ will make sure you get into the best colleges (provided the other parts of your application are similarly strong).Now coming to the question of “how”. Make sure you have enough time on your hand for preparation (6-8 months: for a steady preparation).Quantitative section, take a look at ETS Math review, it will help you recap all the concepts you need to make clear to get a good enough score. Scoring 166+ in quants is not a tough task, provided you are good at maths and you have had enough timed practice. For practice, you can try the Manhattan 5lb book, it has innumerable sums.Cracking the verbal section is a tough task, but you can really make it up if you devote enough time. Read story books, of old authors (not the new ones!), it will help you a lot in your vocabulary and usage. Read newspapers, editorial columns, it will definitely help you in understanding RC's (reading comprehension). A knowledge of etymology never hurts, so you may as well complete “Word power made easy” by Norman Lewis (trust me! It helps). Magoosh flashcards are equally important, you need not mug up all the 1100+ words, but having a fair idea of the words helps. Use kaplan gre general test workbook, it will give you all kinds of tips and tricks, as well as some very helpful vocabulary insight (in the appendix section). And finally, practice and practice. Same as quants, Manhattan 5lb book provides lots of practice. Kaplan will cover your analytical writing part, it's very helpful.As ETS conducts gre, have a good look at the study materials ETS provides, those will be the closest to your actual gre questions.GRE and TOEFL scores are not the only criteria for admission. Make your academic profile strong.For starters, decide which colleges you want to apply, how much average score they need, 320+ is what most colleges keep a check at. After that, schedule your mock tests. (One of the most important parts, which you should not skip). Give the mock by Crunchprep, 30–45 days before your GRE, and see where you stand. Remember once your start giving mocks, it means you are past all the preparation period, this your time to do last minute improvements in the topics you are weak. Give the mock tests by Manhattan, really helpful, will be a bit discouraging, but will motivate you to work harder. Keep the PowerPrep for last 10 days, and try to give them with as calm mindset as you would be giving actual GRE. These two tests will have the closest relevance in terms of difficulty, to your actual exam. Generally, you can expect atleast average of these two scores in your actual exam (provided you give your best shot).And finally, if you haven't made any decision yet, this is the time, buckle up, start your preparations.All The Best!!

GRE Preparation Tips: GRE is usually the first choice of test for many students who want to pursue their master’s abroad, especially USA. But, before taking the test there could be many questions in your mind like:How difficult is the test?How to prepare for GRE?How to maximize my GRE performance?What kind of resources should I refer to?Let us have a look at the pattern of GRE General test:Verbal Reasoning(Two sections)20 questions per section30 minutes per sectionQuantitative Reasoning(Two sections)20 questions per section35 minutes per sectionAnalytical Writing(One section with two separately timed tasks)One "Analyse an Issue" task and one "Analyse an Argument" task30 minutes per taskHow to prepare for GRE Verbal reasoning:A. Learn new words: Make it a point to learn new words everyday. It is the most important GRE preparation tip. Most importantly, try and use fresh words in your sentences. It is always interesting to play with words and their formations. The exercise does not only introduce new words but also improves your vocabulary to a great extent. If you are in the look-out for new words sites like OALD and Webster can be very helpful.B. Practice Reading Comprehension: Reading Comprehension form a big chunk of the GRE paper. Hence, practice as many reading comprehensions as possible for you. Treat it like mathematics. Practice atleast two to three reading comprehensions in a day.C. Check your grammar: One of the major GRE preparation tips is that Grammar practice plays a very important part . It is not an easy task to learn all the rules of grammar. The easy way here would be to understand the basic usages and very importantly learn your tenses.Quantitative Reasoning:The quantitative reasoning section evaluates the basic mathematical skills of the test taker. You need to have knowledge of the standard mathematical concepts and their application in solving problems.The Quantitative section has two tasks with 20 question each and you will be given 35 minutes to complete each section.How to prepare for GRE Quantitative Reasoning:A. Practice elementary mathematics: If you appearing for GRE it is imperative to make sure your concepts in elementary mathematics are clear. If not, it is time to dust and open your high school books again. The main topics in this section includes Arithmetic, Algebra, Geometry and Data analysis. However, instead of direct questions relating to the topics you will be asked questions needing application of the mathematical concepts. It means the exam tests your confidence in the topic. So, make sure you have your concepts clear before you take your GRE.So, make sure you have solved enough sample papers before the GRE.B. Solve sample paper: One of the effective GRE preparation tips is to solve as many sample papers as possible. Quants is one of the trickier sections fo GRE and it is always preferable to be prepared for the kind of expected questions.C. Practice, practice and more practice: There is one thing that you have to do if you want to ace your GRE Quantitative section i.e Practice, practice and more practice. Repeat the process once you are done. The more you practice the more your concepts will be clear.Analytical WritingThis section measures two important skills of the test-taker. Firstly, your critical thing ability and secondly your analytical writing skills. There are two tasks in this section. One is the “Analyse an Issue" task and the other "Analyse an Argument" task. In the issue task you are required to analyse an issue and develop your opinion around it. In the argument task, you have to analyse an argument and present a position regarding it.How to prepare for GRE Analytical Writing:A. Read: Yes,the trick is simple. Read as much as possible. It will develop your skills in forming an opinion . There is always a way of directing an argument in a manner that is convincing and that only comes from having knowledge on any given topic.B. Practice writing: Take a topic and start writing on it. Make sure the topic is argument based as the GRE test would necessarily present topics on argument is possible. Consider these GRE preparation tips while writing:1. Which direction do you want to give your argument? 2. Jot down all points for or against the issue.3. Filter your points. Select only those points which are based on reason.4. Divide your argument into sections to make your points clear.“We should not give up and we should not allow the problem to defeat us.”All The Best!!!

Thanks for A2A.To begin with the answer I would like to re-frame your question. Passing the GRE should not be your aim. Think of nailing it. So the first rule is be positive and honest to yourself. Be positive in your approach.Now, coming to how you can nail it. Well it’s pretty simple to sound and even simpler to execute. Sounds ridiculous isn’t it!! Please follow each of the below process as I take you through the alleys to success.Firstly, do a quick fact check. Give one mock from ETS. Test your level where you are lacking and keep in mind that’s the worst possible thing to happen. You will rise from here on.Once the Q&A session of introspection is over its work time. I am assuming you are novice in both the aspects of GRE viz Quant and Verbal and got the least score in the Mock I suggested. Start with Quant and Verbal simultaneously.Verbal Reasoning: Download the Magoosh app and start preparing the Vocab from there. You can also refer to the Barron’s GRE high frequency words. Look for grammar a bit. The book High School Grammar by Wren and Martin comes quite handy.Quantitative Aptitude: Although there are many books available in the market, I will recommend you to take NCERT Maths Text book for class 7 and 8. Brush up all the concepts,practice few sums from every chapter. Wondering of class 7 and 8 !! Trust me they are the best resources and GRE Quant is that much easy.Analytical Writing: Practice writing on several writing tasks. For topics you may refer to YouTube. There are lots of good stuffs over there. Consult some person who has command over English to get your essays checked.Once you are done with it, now it’s Official ETS Book time. Take that book out solve all the practice questions provided there using a timer in front of you. Soon you will see improvement in your performance.Last step is Mocks. Take as many mocks as you can to get accustomed to the scenario and analyze your performance properly. Make taking mocks as a habit so that the D-Day becomes cake walk for you.Last but not the least, keep in mind this is just an exam and you are competing against yourself only. Don’t allow any external factors to manipulate you. It’s should be you, your preparation and the exam.Wish you all the best. Hope it helps. Cheers!!For any further information please feel free to reach out to me.-Kush..

With determination, you can simply “pass” or achieve the score you wanted for GRE. Here are some tips I can provide:ScheduleThe best approach for GRE preparation is creating a very good timeline/schedule of your study time and fun time. Discipline in making the study schedule happen is vital. In today’s era, a lot of distractions are already present to easily get our attention from what we are SUPPOSE to do.Good thing Laura Freberg, PhD has some advice for us: What Is The Best Approach In Preparing For The GRE?Practice TestThere are a lot (both offline and online) that provides practice test for quantitative section. Practice/Mock test is a great help for those who wanted to know the way of GRE exam.Practice tests are not really complete replica of the GRE Exam, but they are developed by tutors/authors that had first-hand experience of how GRE Exam works. The following interviews talks about test prep suggestion and practice tests:Practice Tests: Are They Good Enough?Are Practice Tests Harder Than The Actual Test For GMAT or GRE?Test Prep Suggestion for GRE Math Problem-SolvingTime ManagementManage your time in the most comfortable way. Don’t spend all of your time in studying, you should be able to balance it.Be ConfidentDon’t succumb yourself to stress and pressure. Here is a good advice on how to get used to stress and time pressure in taking GRE:http://www.preped.com/blog/how-t...Here are some helpful tips for GRE Takers:Helpful Tips For Anyone Interested In Taking The GRERecommendeds Apps for Practicing Math ProblemsAdvice For People Who Are Having A Hard With GRE Exam Preparation ScheduleGRE Vocabulary Review Guide







Many GRE experts say that you don't need to learn the exhaustive word-list in the new GRE format. Well it's true that you won't encounter many words out of the "high frequency word-lists" on your D-Day. For example, in most of the sentence equivalence questions, your answer will be the pair of words, among which, one is a general word and another one is a High Frequency GRE word. Say, "support" and "bolster". But ETS doesn't provide you any such word-list. Many words in one High Frequency Word List won't be on another list. The truth is, learning 2000-3000 words can give you an extra edge and you can score at least 5 more marks in your verbal section. Not only this. The good thing about learning new words is the fact that this is the only part of your GRE Test which is going to help you in the long run. Suppose you learned a word yesterday and you encounter that word while reading today's newspaper. The bliss it brings is just amazing. Your frequency to check for a word meaning in a dictionary will reduce by nearly 60%. Improving your vocabulary is really a good thing. And the GRE Test is the best excuse to achieve it. Don't take it as a burden. Take it as an opportunity.Okay, I am sorry I digressed from the main question. The best method to memorize GRE Words is to make FLASH CARDS and REVISE REVISE and REVISE. Pick a wordlist and aim to learn 50 words per day. On the next day, before learning the next 50 words, revise what you learned yesterday and make Flash Cards for those words which you don't remember. Also make flashcards of those words which you think you'll probably forget in the future. Don't learn new words on Sunday. Revise all the words you've learned till date from your flashcards.If you don't revise on a weekly basis, most likely you'll forget most of the new words within two weeks.Ankit Sharma's answer to Which is the best word list?Good Luck.







Hi! I have taken the General GRE exam in March 2017 and scored 329/340 with 163 in Verbal and 166 in Quantitative. I will tell you my experience and in general some tips as to how to fare well on the exam. Nevertheless, preparation strategies vary from person to person.If you want to get an idea as to where you stand even before you start your preparation, I would suggest you to take a free mock test online. I would recommend the one offered by Galvanize. It's not a full test, but has one Verbal section and one Quantitative section. You just need to spend an hour and you would get an idea when you check your scores as to where you made mistakes and which concepts you need to learn better. This, in my opinion, embarks your preparation for GRE!The most important thing to do is to first book your test date. Until and unless your test date is booked, you would not get the requisite motivation to start your preparation. That was what I did. I first scheduled my test and then took the mock to see where I stood. I scored 302/340 in the mock test. I was not at all prepared. So the results were as expected. I found out the concepts I needed to study and started working on them.Talking about how much time you need to invest preparing for the test, it is totally dependent on what you do. If you are an engineering student or a mathematics student or someone taking math courses and constantly staying in touch with the subject, I assure you that Quantitative section would be a cakewalk! At the same time, I would like to emphasize that ETS has raised the bars for Quantitative section and it is not as trivial as it once seemed to be (I'm not generalizing anything here; whatever I say is what I opine). If you want to start from scratch and study everything throughly, I'd highly recommend enrolling for some online GRE coaching.You can subscribe for Magoosh as it would prep you up for the toughest questions - questions that are too tough that ETS might not consider asking them- which is a very good thing as you would find the actual test pretty easy! You can take a subscription for three months or six months depending on what is ideal for you and depending on when you have scheduled your test. Do not think of it as a waste of money because in the worst case scenario where you do bad in your first attempt, you might end up wasting more money for your second attempt! So it's okay to spend some money when necessary because it's worth it. :)Practice all the material religiously, and work everyday. Make sure you have the ETS official book with you and also download the Powerprep software from ETS website. Set a target, say, that you would complete your first round of preparation in a month and then take the first test on the Powerprep software. Depending on your score, you would know where you stand. You can then improve your score by focusing more on areas where you lost marks. Take the second test one week before your actual test date after you think you're fully prepared. That test is relatively tougher than the first one. Spend the last one week practicing rigorously.VerbalVocabulary plays a crucial role in Verbal section, but, remember that it is not everything. It contributes to about 20% of your score on verbal section. The most important aspect is practicing comprehensions and text completions. GRE is an exam which you can excel by practicing more and more problems! That's the key to scoring high on GRE. So don't spend too much time simply learning words. Instead, practice more questions and continue learning words. This approach is more helpful.QuantitativeThe key to scoring high on quantitative is practice and practice and practice! Also, remember that the exam would put you under a time pressure. So practice with time and try to do as many questions as you can with minimum number of mistakes. Every question is worth the same score. So focus more on getting questions right than on somehow answering all the questions.Analytical WritingIt would suffice to score above 3.5 in this section, but I would suggest you to spend some time and get a better score. It's not all about getting a reasonable score but it's about getting a decent and deserving score. If you're good at essay writing and arguments, you would hardly need to spend any time for this section. Otherwise, you need to practice writing and the more you practice, the better you get at it. ETS asks questions only from the given pool of essays. So make sure to check them out. I have practiced several topics from the pool of essays and scored 5/6 in this section.There are websites that have collections of GRE preparation books including Kaplan, Baron's, Manhattan, Princeton and old ETS books. So try to get them and practice as much as you can! :)Finally, I would say practice makes your GRE score perfect! I mean it literally, a perfect score of 340 is attainable with practice. :)All the best!PS: I have forgotten to mention this. In order to improve vocabulary on a long-term basis, do study Word Power Made Easy by Nornan Lewis. But this book doesn't cover several GRE words! So please download the app called “Painless GRE”. It has around 4000 words. Once you're done learning them, most of your vocabulary prep is done! :)

Be sure to register early for your GRE exam so that there is enough time to process any necessary paperwork, and so that you can take the exam at the center of your choice and at your desired time and date. You can register late by paying a fee of $25. However, be sure to take the exam at a date which will enable ETS to send your score report to the school(s) of your choice before the school application deadline. When you register for the GRE, make double sure that you print and provide your name EXACTLY as it appears on your identification document(s).For the paper-based GRE revised General Test, you can register by mail or online. The paper-based exam is offered in areas of the world where the computer-based version of the exam is not available. To register Online, use the Online Registration System. To register by mail, and for additional registration information, visit the ETS Registration and Downloads page on the ETS website.







The BasicsFirst off, let me assume you haven't completed an Engineering degree in a First-World Anglophone country, because a lot of my advice probably wouldn't apply to you then. I also don't think you'd have any problems scoring 330 as easy as pie because of the way you've been educated, so this post won't apply to you then. If you haven't however, a score of 330+ on the GRE signifies one of two things: You're either exceptionally well-rounded in both the Verbal and the Quantitative aspects of your education, meaning you won't lose more than 10 points aggregate in all your sections combined. There's a few people I know who're this way despite their Third-World upbringing. Hats off to them.Or, as I was, you're talented enough to score 170/170 on only one of your sections, and you've prepared well enough and done what's required on test-day not to lose more than 10 points on your other section. This was me. I knew I would get 169-170 on my Quants all along, it was all about damage limitation on GRE Verbal (which I wasn't very good at) and making sure I didn't squander more than ten points on test day. I succeeded, but not without some serious doubts along the way.So the objective is clear. You've got to avoid losing more than 10 points on test-day, Verbal and Quants combined. Let me talk about how I managed to accomplish that feat and how you can do the same.GRE VerbalFor me, Verbal was far and away the most difficult of all three GRE Sections, simply because of the limitations in my vocabulary and the types of questions that I encountered when I practiced for the GRE. If you're in the same boat, you'll fully understand how preparing for GRE Verbal can sometimes fill you with doubt and depression, because you've simply got no idea about what the right answer choice could be. The way I see it, the most crucial aspect to mastering GRE Verbal is not how much time you spend preparing. It hasn't even got much to do with how many words you know.The most crucial skill on GRE Verbal is Context.What does that mean? Basically, you need to know how the different words in English you're already familiar with can be used in differing contexts to provide alternate meanings. This is how you should inculcate context into your GRE Preparation:First things first. Buy a complete prep book for GRE Verbal. I chose Kaplan GRE Premier, but only because that was the book somebody else recommended to me. Barron's and ETS are more than good enough as well.Go through all the question types, tips and practice questions provided in at least one of these books. Doing so will ingrain the format of the question paper and the probable words you're likely to come across on the day of the test itself. If you make a mistake in answering a question, write that down in a separate booklet, understand why you made that mistake (unknown word, wrong context etc.) and make sure it doesn't happen again.I would also recommend going through all the resources available on the Magoosh website (https://gre.magoosh.com/) as well as the apps they've got for GRE Verbal, available for smartphones. They really helped brush up my vocabulary.I've also covered GRE Verbal Preparation in more detail here:What can I do to improve my verbal score in the GRE from 153 to 160+?GRE QuantsI didn't need to spend a lot of time preparing for the Quantitative Section of the GRE, partly because it was just 10th Grade Math, and partly because I knew I had more pressing issues to deal with a.k.a Verbal. But if you feel like you need to do better in Quant, there's really no substitute for practice. The books that I've mentioned previously have all got chapters devoted to GRE Quants as well, so getting questions to practice with shouldn't be a problem. Work on the mathematical concepts that you'll need for the test, improve your time management skills, and you'll be fine.Analytical WritingAgain, AWA wasn't especially relevant to my GRE Preparation since I'm going to be applying for an MS in an Engineering discipline, so anything above 4.0/6.0 was fine by me. There are two kinds of essays you'll have to write on test-day, 30 minutes each, with slightly different writing styles. The best way to improve your essay writing skills is to read the sample essays that're given in your prep books, and practice using similar words when you write your own pieces. This goes without saying, but please make sure your essays are devoid of any grammatical/spelling mistakes, as those kinds of errors tend to be looked upon very poorly. Lastly, here's an here's an extensive guide written by the lads over at CrunchPrep on scoring 330+ on your GRE.Hope this helps :)

GRE is not a test of your intelligence. It's more about how well you are able to hack the exam pattern and temperament.To go from 320 or 325 to 330/330+ makes all the difference and every point needs to be earned.Verbal: Assuming most people appearing for GRE from India are engineers or atleast from STEM background, Verbal gives nightmares to everyone. Blame it on our schools who taught us to mug up answers in English.Vocab: Don't be lazy about Vocab! It pays rich dividends. Good vocab prep means Sentence Equivalence and Text Completions part done so 8/20 questions taken care of. It helps tremendously in improving AWA quality, understanding RCs and TOEFL writing too. Start slowly and build up from there. Start with 333 High frequency word list, then move on to 800 word list, then 2000 and so on. 10 days prior to GRE focus on 800 word list. It helps the most. (If you are preparing for GRE under severe time constraints, Barron’s800 word list is your saviour). 90% of words on my GRE were from list and I was able to solve all questions by process of elimination because I knew all options or all but one in worst case scenario. There are several apps& websites available like : Magoosh Flashcards, Quizlet, Memrise etc. They have different formats. Pick what suits you the best. My personal favourite was Memrise because reviewing words already learnt is as important if not more as compared to learning new words. Set short targets such learning 20 new words.Reading Comprehensions: pace yourself well while reading. First reading should be mostly skimming through the text. If you don't understand something don't fret. You don't need to understand the whole passage to crack it. Don't trust instincts/gut feeling/memory either. Read every option and verify with relevant parts of passage. (Paraphrasing may help if you are really quick at reading). GRE tries to trick you by twisting/omitting/adding usually a word in the options which isn't in the passage. Thumbrule: eliminate any negative/out of context/ controversial options. More the practice and mock tests, better will be your RCs part.Quant:Manhattan 5 pound is a great book to start off and tackle questions of varying difficulty. Note: Don't skip Advance Quant part. Due to adaptive nature of tests you may get difficult questions in 2nd quant so it's a good idea to get used to it.How to avoid silly mistakes? By accepting them. Whenever I made a mistake in a mock test, instead of classifying under the broad banner of silly mistakes, I would write it down. Example “I calculated % instead of %change” etc.Utilise all 35 mins. Recheck every answer, using substitution or something. It really helps to eliminate silly mistakes.AWA: Usually we just have to clear a cut off for AWA.Read sample essays initially.Practice writing under timed conditions so you know how to manage those 30 mins.Leave 4–5 mins at end for proofreading twice. We tend to ignore spelling mistakes during first reading.General:Practice a lot of mocks with timed conditions so you are accustomed to various exam formats (number and sequence of verbal and quant sections)Keep a track of progress and keep reviewing mistakes.GRE is a test of temperament. Practice sitting in a chair in front of a computer and keeping your brain in full concentration mode for 4 hours at a stretch!Cheers! All the best!

After  making up your mind for masters degree abroad, the next thing to do to  make your dream come true, is to prepare for GRE. Unless and until you  are an expert in quantitative methods and English verbal skills, you  need GRE practice and preparation to excel the exam with flying colors.  Practice makes you comfortable and known to the exam pattern and course.  It is necessary for all, but compulsorily important to students those  native speaking language is not English.Although the test papers maybe an easy  task for students who have done enough practice, but not first time  attempts directly at the exam time it could be taxing! GRE undergoes  changes in its question papers every year which makes it highly  competitive and a challenge to score higher. There is a huge competition  among thousands of students who appear for GRE test papers. Hence it is utmost important to be well-prepared.GRE (Graduate Record Examination) scores  are required by graduate schools of English speaking countries like  Australia, UK, US and others for giving admission to international  students in various academic graduate level programs. This test  evaluates skills of the students on the basis of three sections:  1. Analytical writing  2. Verbal reasoning  3. Quantitative reasoningIn computer-based test format ‘unscored’ and ‘research’ sections are also included; the scores are not shown on the test.Basic Tips to Prepare for GRE and Test Papers:Make a strategy and follow it  religiously to study regularly for each section. Every section of GRE is  unique, thus require diverse preparation.Be thorough with analytical writing.  This section measures candidates’ focus, intelligence for discussion and  their ability to put forth complex ideas with suitable examples. To  gain mastery over analytical skills, read a lot especially articles on  diverse topics and try to analyze them with varied perspectives.Keep your knowledge bank updated. Be  aware of national and international important happenings and events.  Read regular national dailies and magazines that contain information of  latest occurrences of the world. Follow televisions and internet for the  same.Practice for quantitative reasoning.  This section evaluates candidates’ skills to study and interpret the  quantitative issues and how they can use their mathematical skills to  solve them. Subjects like geometry, algebra, arithmetic, probability and  statistics are included. Practice and clarity of concepts can make you  score higher.Get complete hold of verbal reasoning  section by prior practice. This section examines the ability of the  aspirants to comprehend what they have read and how they draw and  investigate conclusions out of it. Read as much as you can English  language materials. Also analyze and write as much as you can.To prepare for GRE select the  preparation books with care. The books should cover all relevant topics  of each and every section of the exam. You can also download study  material from government’s GRE website. Downloading software like  POWERPREP II would be of great help to get acquainted with the tests in  terms of time, questions test design, on-screen calculator and testing  software.Before starting the exam read the questions carefully, understand what answer is required and then start answering.

Here’s how I scored 330+ with a 3 week preparation plan!It is important to understand that the GRE is very different as compared to the other exams we are used to giving, talking from an Indian’s perspective. Blind hard work will not serve any purpose and sometimes will be counterproductive.ETS (the company that conducts the GRE) wants to convince you that your score is a measure of how good you are at ‘critical thinking’, but in reality it is only a measure of how good you are at giving the GRE. So, fortunately for us, the more you practise in the correct way, the better you become at giving the GRE.The Correct Way (in my experience) :Quality > Quantity. Always. Please do not spend 10+ hours a day mechanically solving problems and forgetting about them as you move forward. This will cause you to plateau at a certain skill level. The key is small incremental improvements.For me, the ideal way was a simple 3 step process :1.	Solve problems in small sets, around 20(+5 || -5) questions per set.2.	Check your answers. See the solutions, understand them thoroughly.3.	After checking all, recap the questions you got wrong, why, and what you learnt from them. This is extremely important.Let’s jump into the schedule now, shall we?Pre-prep phase (1 week) :Okay, I lied, it’s not really 3 weeks, but this pre-prep phase won’t take more than two hours of your time per day, and what’s more, you can easily do this while you eat or just before sleeping.What is to be done? Words, Words and more Words.Spend this week learning the words from the following apps :1.	Barron’s 11002.	Magoosh Flash Cards (around 1000 words)3.	Manhattan Essential Words (around 500 words)Vocabulary is essential to understanding the Reading Comprehensions as well as the sentence completions, so please complete this before moving ahead!Week 1 :Congratulations! The boring part is done. This week, let’s do :1.	4 Practice Tests2.	Practise each type of question in isolation. For example, do 20 Text Completions in one set. This will help you to identify weaknesses to work on.3.	Brush up all the shortcuts and maths formulae that you encounter.(Online Magoosh article exists)Week 2 :This week, let’s move forward with :1.	6 Practice Tests.2.	Do mixed practice sets now (All types of problems together), to simulate the actual GRE scenario.3.	Strictly time your tests and practice sets. Keep 5 minutes per section as a buffer. Identify which type of questions you are slow at. Work on them.Week 3 :Buckle up, this is your final lap :1.	8 practice tests.2.	Start reading AWA essays online, as well as general structuring tips. A lot of video material is available online. Practise a few essays if necessary.3.	Revise the Vocabulary words and mathematical formulae.At the end of this schedule, you should be ready to face the GRE. So be confident, sleep well before the paper and ohh, don’t forget to carry a jacket. It’s freezing in there.Thanks for reading! Please do upvote if this helped you.

ure-Shot success planGRE verbal is not like GRE Quant. Unlike GRE Quant, you need to give yourself as much time as possible to acquire the required reading skills.Resources Required• Access to reading resources mentioned above• GRE Official Guide• Subscription to Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• A notebook (Yes, you will need it)• Some sticky notesThe plan• Read an article every day from the opinion pages from the above mentioned resources• Focus on the usage of support signals, contrast signals, causal signals, concession signal and expounding signals• Make a list of all the signals you encounter and make notes on their usages• Make logical predictions whenever you encounter these signals and read further to check if you were correct• Make a note of all the words you encounter and learn their meanings as used in the context• Write down the words (just the words) on sticky notes and stick them in your study area. These notes should remain posted till the time you are done with your GRE. When you see these words every day you recall the words and your familiarity with these words increases• After you are almost 15 days through, start taking small Text Completion tests available on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes• Once you feel that you are make good enough progress with the understanding of the text, you are in a position to take some Reading Comprehension practice tests on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes. Make a note of the same. Do not commit the same errors• You must be taking a Reading Comprehension and Text Completion test every day. You must have developed ample reading skills by the end of 45 days• Your vocabulary must have also strengthened by now• Start practicing some Sentence Equivalence questions on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes. Make a note of the same. Do not commit the same errors• You have done all the above and you have almost completed 60 days of your prep• Now try your hand on the official content. Go through the Official Guide and finish all the practice questions• Try those questions once again which you got wrong in the first attempt• Note down all the words that you are not familiar with• Keep working on all the words that you encounter in the Official Guide as these are the words that you will find on the GRE• Take all GRE Verbal Sectional Tests available on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Take necessary corrective actions and practice those areas where you are unable to scoreFollow this process religiously and give yourself almost 3 months; you will see that you are developing your skills and the most convoluted questions appear very easy.Subscribe to any of our convenient subscriptions plans to unleash the true power of GRE Prep.Remember, we here at TCY are committed to your success.

I got 336 on my GRE within 20 days, (V166 Q170) and I can talk about how I got it here. I started at around 320 from my first mock test, and obviously GRE preparation should usually depend on the individuals, to be more specific, their backgrounds, their goals, and sometimes their time budget, but generally, it consists of the following phases. I’ll focus less on selecting books and softwares and instead talk more on general strategy and time allocation:1.Self-assessment & Planning (1–2 weeks): Make a target score based on your grad school goals. Then take a few diagnostic tests to see where you’re at. Identify areas you need to work on: vocabulary, reading, or certain math areas you’ve already forgotten about, and based on your goal and current level, you can figure out how much time you need to work on improvement.2. Practice & Improvement (2–10+ weeks): It really depends on your schedule. Most people I know spend 1–3 months studying for GRE, and after the first phase, you now should have a better idea how much time you need to work on GRE. Now that you’ve identified areas you need work on, start working on them relentlessly and making progress. For this Phase I have generally 4 tips:Focus. The famous 80/20 Rule[1] states that roughly 80% of your outcomes come from 20% of your inputs. This applies to GRE as well. There will be areas on GRE where you can most quickly improve. When the time is limited, you need to focus on those areas to make the most progress. Take a few mock tests and find those spots, and work on them relentlessly.Make mistakes. Don’t worry about them at all. It is a good thing to find yourself making mistakes when you’re practicing than you do on the real test. When you practice, you want to expose all the possible ways you make mistakes, and then find ways to avoid them. The reality is, aside from the vocabulary, GRE hardly covers anything that esoteric. In many cases, it’s the silly mistakes you make that really keeps you from getting your dream score. Learning how to avoid those mistakes can allow you to improve quickly. You just need to identify them first, by making them.Analyze. Don’t just practice questions after questions. Think about them. Find patterns, find how you get them wrong, and find quicker ways to solve these questions. At the end of the day, it’s not the quantity of questions that you practiced on that matters the most, it’s how you treat them. Don’t just focus on getting the questions right, focus on how to get better.Consolidate. After you’ve practiced, made mistakes, and analyzed them, now it’s time to consolidate your takeaways. Make yourself a list of actions you can take during the actual test to help yourself perform better. Take a good look at them before the next time you practice, and make a final list before you take the real test to keep yourself reminded of these takeaways.Many of my friends have asked me how I got the score I have. Frankly this is it. Now I’m building Gregory to help people do these things automatically. I’d be happy to hear any thoughts/feedback on it.3. Mock Tests (1–2 Weeks): Although you have taken the diagnostic tests and have practiced for weeks by the time you enter this phase, it’s now time to get ready for the real test. Try to find the best pace for yourself, and figure out the common errors you tend to make to avoid losing points to silly mistakes. This is especially important for the math section. Before the test, put together a list of actionable items to remind you of things you tend to overlook during the real test and try to avoid them.These are my advice for any test takers, feel free to reach out or leave a comment for any questions.Footnotes[1] What Is The 80/20 Rule And Why It Will Change Your Life







Ideally,If you are planning for fall intake, then start preparing from/ after 5th semester (December). You will have winter vacations for roughly 1 month, make most of it. And try to appear by/ during 6th semester (April) itself.The idea is that you won’t be very busy during this time as many colleges in India have cultural/ technical/ youth festivals, Industrial visits etc going on, so environment is very much chilled out. Also the work load is less as you are still not looking for jobs there is no tension whatsoever regarding campus placements, final year projects etc.This is by far the best time to study/ prepare and appear for GRE and TOFEL.Bonus: If you end up scoring less than what you were expecting, you will still have couple of month in place to re-appear for the exam.Practically,You should start with your preparation after 6th semester (June) and make full use of summer vacation as well as initial 2 months of 7th semester.Most universities start accepting applications from October or November, so make it a point to appear for GRE/ TOFEL by October it self. This will give you ample time to do all other documentation related work.Try to get done with both the exams as soon as possible.Cheers! :)

Well,If you are already thinking about it, then you should gear up and start preparing for GRE and TOEFL.I am conducting GRE quants and verbal training for last 3 years now, I have seen students from various backgrounds preparing for exams.Engineering students prepare for the exam during their 3rd year of engineering i.e 5th semester. But I have an opinion of my own, any student from whichever branch of engineering should start preparing from the 2nd year of engineering.During your 2nd year, you have less work from university and also have fewer commitments. You can prepare slowly with your own pace and practice as much as possible.This is beneficial for your other exams as well, like CAT, GMAT, CET etc. even if you are not planning for Higher studies abroad, preparing for GRE and TOEFL drastically improves your English Vocabulary and Speaking skills which are must for Jobs as well.Overall, to sum up, the answer, Prepare for GRE in 2nd Year, appear in 3rd-year winter, even if you fail to secure great GRE score in 1st Attempt, you can re-appear for exams during 3rd-year summer break.I advise TOEFL students to appear for TOEFL just 6 to 7 months before they are planning to apply.

May to July of the one year less than you want to go abroad or to start your session.likeif your last sem is ending in 2018 and want to start in same year then in August of 2017.Because it takes approximately 8–10 months to get proper things done and some want you to first complete your bachelors and apply then so if you are completing your degree in 2017 then you are eligible for 2018 batch whose admissions will start from early october to late January (few choices), so that means give GRE and other tests by May to july of same year.So two options ,Be early, (have 3–6 months to prepare)Be On time (have about 8–12 months to prepare)If this confuses you check my similar answers.Hope it helps :D .

If you are planning to go in Fall semester, say 2017, then start preparing from July 2016. Give GRE exam in end of October 2016, TOEFL in next 15 days so let us assume mid Nov 2016. You will have all results till start of Dec 2016, till then prepare your SOP, resume and transcripts. APply to universities till end of Jan 2017. Wait for results till April 2017. Apply for Visa in May, give visa interview in June 2017, get you tickets done in June, Fly in July or August!

engineering students prefer to take GRE in their third year in the month of March or August as GRE requires to be free and students are usually free in the third year .In case of TOEFL, one can take the exam in September as people are done with their GRE and have no other Academic commitments.remember ,GRE Scores are valid till 5 years and TOEFL scores are valid till 2 yearsfor more information you can refer to the article below.When Should One Take The GRE - GRE Preparation Guide

It is important to remember that GRE scores are valid for 5 years and TOEFL scores are valid for 2 years. If you are planning to apply to Universities it is important you start preparing at least 6–8 months ahead of application deadlines (application deadlines are different for different universities). You should keep adequate time for re-attempts if necessary.For more information on GRE read this blog and if you’re looking for teachers who can help you ace the test, visit Pedagoge.







In Canada only the Top Ranked Universities require GRE for their MS/PhD/MBA programs. Most of the average Universities ask simply for English Language test TOEFL/IELTS.The Canadian universities are less competitive and have extreme cold weather conditions which makes them difficult to attract international students so most of them won't ask for GRE score.List of Canadian Universities without GRE Score requirementHere is the list of good universities in Canada without GRE for MS and Phd programs. SinceBrock University2. Carleton University3. Concordia University4. Kwantlen Polytechnic University5. Lakehead University6. Laurentian University7. Laval University8. Memorial University of Newfoundland9. Royal Roads University10. Trent University11. University of Lethbridge12. University of Manitoba13. University of New Brunswick14. University of Northern British Columbia15. University of Ontario Institute of Technology16. University of Prince Edward Island17. University of Regina18. University of the Fraser Valley19. University of WinnipegHere is the List of Canadian Universities accepting GRE scores for MBA courses.University NameCampusesBrock UniversitySt. CatharinesCape Breton UniversitySydney (Community Economic Development)Carleton UniversityOttawaConcordia UniversityMontrealDalhousie UniversityHalifax (MBA in Financial Services)HEC MontrealMontrealIvey Business SchoolTorontoLakehead UniversityThunder BayMcGill UniversityMontrealMcMaster UniversityHamiltonQueens University School of BusinessKingstonSt. Mary's UniversityHalifaxThompson Rivers UniversityKamloopsUniversity of AlbertaEdmontonUniversity of British ColumbiaVancouverUniversity of CalgaryCalgaryUniversity of New BrunswickFrederictonUniversity of QuebecRimouskiUniversity Canada WestVancouverUniversity of ManitobaWinnipegUniversity of New BrunswickSaint JohnUniversity of Ontario Institute of TechnologyOshawaUniversity of OttawaOttawaUniversity of TorontoTorontoUniversity of VictoriaVictoriaUniversity of Western OntarioLondonWilfrid Laurier UniversityWaterlooYork UniversityTorontoMBA Programs that Accept theIt is always advisable to Look for Public Canadian Universities as they are funded by the Government and have much lesser fee structure than the Private Universities.List of Canada’s Province (State) wise Top most Public UniversitiesOntarioUniversity of TorontoYork UniversityUniversity of WaterlooUniversity of WindsorRyerson UniversityQueen’s UniversityMcMaster UniversityUniversity of Western OntarioUniversity of GuelphUniversity of Ontario Institute of TechnologyCarleton UniversityUniversity of OttawaBrock UniversityLakehead UniversityLaurentian UniversityBritish ColumbiaUniversity of British ColumbiaUniversity of VictoriaSimon Fraser UniversityRoyal Roads UniversityCapilano UniversityThompson Rivers UniversityUniversity of the Fraser ValleyVancouver Island UniversityAlbertaUniversity of AlbertaUniversity of CalgaryUniversity of LethbridgeSaskatchewanUniversity of SaskatchewanUniversity of ReginaManitobaUniversity of ManitobaUniversity of WinnipegQuebecUniversity of MontrealMcGill UniversityConcordia UniversityUniversity of QuebecBishop's UniversityAll the Best for your Canadian University Hunt!They say for Canada~ “You can't buy Happiness, but you can stay in Canada and that's pretty much the same thing!”







Reposting from my other answer: Austin Li's answer to What is the best way to prepare for a competitive exam (CAT/GRE/GMAT) in 1 year without paying any tuition?The quick and dirty guide for the GRE: Raise your score by 10 - 20 in a week!Note: I'm writing this because my girlfriend might be taking the GRE in a few months and I wanted to write a guide for her. I'm a lazy prick. I don't like to study, and despite buying the Barron's, the Kaplan, and the Official guide, I only studied about 2% of the content in a week. I started on the diagnostic test and got 160 quant, 150 verbal. On the real test I got a 164 quant, 163 verbal, and 5.5 AWA. The AWA is a joke. Read on and I'll show you how to nail it. If you're reading this and taking the test in a week, most of these tips will still help. This is probably the most helpful strategy. It keeps your time management spot on, and it frees your mind from the stress of remembering your thoughts when the mental fatigue starts getting to you. Before the test starts and in-between test sections, you are given a few minutes of time. Use all of this time to prepare. Lay out the scrap paper in landscape and use a pen to make a deductive logic grid. Don't bother with a ruler making pretty lines, just make sure you do it and label the question numbers in an easy way to read.The problems usually have 4 to 5 multiple choice options. If you're unsure of the answer, you will usually be able to tell 2 to 3 choices to be wrong if you know the math and the vocabulary words, and a remainder of 2 choices that you're unsure about/forgot the meaning/couldn't figure out the final steps of the math.Grid: Note that on the verbal section, do not fill in the question number as there will be some questions of multiple blanks that you need to each fill correctly to gain credit (Killer!), so label those questions "1 a, 1 b, 1 c".Take at most roughly a minute for each question. Since the new revision it is less important to ensure you get the first few questions right. If you see an answer that is wrong, mark an "X" on to the grid for that choice. If you see an answer that you are unsure about between two, mark an "O" on the grid.On the verbal section where a question has multiple blanks to fill, you will probably end up with a question that you are not sure about on almost all the choices, of which you need to chain the "O"s together to see which one makes sense. There are only 6 combinations on 3 blanks, each with 2 unsure choices. Eliminate from those and you'll end up with 2 to 3 choices, and will raise your probability of success from 1/27 (3 choices on 3 blanks) to about 1/2.5 (2 choices on 3 blanks, with 3-4 of 6 combinations eliminated)Circle the question numbers that you are unsure of. When you're done with the section, you can zoom back quickly and identify the question you need to check and redo.ALWAYS PICK AN ANSWER. A guess still counts to points!Buy the flash cards and sleep with them. If you've already bought them but are not sleeping with them, start doing so now. Bring them around with you to dinner, to gaming, to socializing and on and on. Break the pile of flash cards into loops of 50 cards. Study through one loop each day, and move on to the next. On the two days after you've finished a loop, do a written test with the flashcard loop only showing the word but no definition. In seven days you'll have memorized 250 words for the GRE. Always pick from flashcards of a "most frequent" list to cover high probability words.The AWA is a joke. Lots of people lose unnecessary points on it because of cultural practices and because of the personality of writing they present that not all test assessors will like. It's a human reading your essay, not a robot, don't buy the argument that they don't make mistakes and don't judge your personal writing style.ANALYZE AN ISSUEFirst, take a look at the "Analyze an Issue" brief from the website:Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the statement and explain your reasoningfor the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider ways in which the statement might or might not hold true and explain how these considerations shape your position.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the recommendation and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, describe specific circumstances in which adopting the recommendation would or would not be advantageous and explain how these examples shape your position.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the claim. In developing and supporting your position, be sure to address the most compelling reasons and/or examples that could be used to challenge your position.Write a response in which you discuss which view more closely aligns with your own position and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should address both of the views presented.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the claim and the reason on which that claim is based.Write a response in which you discuss your views on the policy and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider the possible consequences of implementing the policy and explain how these consequences shape your position.Notice how all of them point out whether you agree or disagree, and why. Your first sentence in this section should always state the extent you agree or disagree. The second sentence should always highlight the major reasons why you agree or disagree, and ideally should be in Serial commaformat. "... agree/disagree because of AAA, BBB, and CCC"From those points, you have your paragraphs. Each paragraph should start with defining your exact argument, and be followed by a second sentence that explains how your argument connects/enhances/weakens the issue at hand. Pick arguments that build upon each other and in the summary paragraph, summarize them, and briefly restate your position.ANALYZE AN ARGUMENTTake a look at the model answer on the official site:Analyze an ArgumentWhen you look at the model answer here's the results it gives to these three important questions:Is the claim valid or not? Yes, it may be a valid claim to increase the funding. [Take note that it's very important to separate the validity of the claim and the validity of the reasoning behind the claim.]Is the reasoning behind the claim valid or not? No, the survey may be wrong in its scope, validity, and relevance. [There is almost always a numerical piece of data in the passage that could be attacked or could have its assumptions pointed out.]Are there problems in the logical structure that undermine the argument, but not the claim? Yes, the cause of the smell and low quality of the water has not been established to be able to be "cleaned" effectively, and that no causal link has been established between water quality and usage has been established. [This type of logical structure usually is slippery slope logic. Read below.]Note that the farther you deviate from the evidence at hand and spin your own theories, the more assumptions you make and the weaker your argument becomes. If you look at the score 5 and score 4 essays, their logical attacks are less well explained and less grounded on to the evidence and structure of the argument.Pay attention to Slippery slope structures like the example. A slippery slope generally builds on a long chain of seemingly reasonable assumptions to arrive at unreasonable or poorly supported arguments. Take this example of a mom warning a child not to goto a party, because a party might have bad kids, that might befriend the child in question, and over time might introduce the child to drugs or alcohol as they grow up, that might develop into an addiction, that might then ruin high school grades, then destroy chances at college admissions, and ultimately fail to secure a well paying job, then ruin the child's life. From each jump the logical leap may seem small, but in the end the argument becomes going to party = life ruined. Attacking the statistical validity, the logical connection between one argument and another, the assumptions made on the evidence that determines whether it is circumstantial or irrefutable become the major points of the essay. Avoid the urge to impress the writers by using fancy words and complex grammatical structures. Use the KISS principle and write in straightforward wording to allow your argument to come out with a strong tone.







When I started preparing for GRE, I realized that though I was quite comfortable with Quantitative Section,  I was a total noob at Verbal, be it vocabulary or reading comprehension. I had precisely three months to prepare. I surfed through the net and found that the New GRE was "context intensive" unlike its older version which was "vocabulary intensive". In other words, it was your "depth of knowledge" in vocabulary and not the breadth that mattered, which meant I could cut short my target vocabulary bank from 4000 to 1500 but with a caveat that I had to learn those 1500 words inside out, their usage in context of the sentence, which included not just primary, but secondary and tertiary meanings.Note: Below is the study pattern that I followed and it worked for me, but this is not the only way, you can always modify it as per your style. This is more focused on verbal section as I was fairly comfortable in the quantitative section from the beginning. I hope it proves helpful to you as well.1. First Month: ConditioningAs Norman Lewis puts it, if the Vocabulary Bank is Calcium, then extensive reading is Vitamin D. There is no point in taking more and more calcium if you don't have sufficient Vitamin D to absorb it.First Three Weeks: Work out (don't just read, work it out with pencil) "Word Power Made Easy" by Norman Lewis. It has 45 sessions. Finish 15 sessions per week, roughly 1.5-2 hours per day.In parallel, start reading one newspaper EXTENSIVELY. Read it inside out (of course there are some sections which are just not your type, you can leave out those 2-3 pages). I started reading Economic Times because I had an inclination for business news (and with all those graphs and pie charts, it inadvertently prepared me for Data Interpretation as well) Fourth Week: Time for some extra Vitamin D. Pick up one novel (preferably a motivational one) and read it voraciously, just finish it off in one week and don't forget to mark the new words that you come across while reading. Initially, it will pose some difficulty to those who are not into reading. I myself had a bitter start but a good novel will absorb you into it as you proceed. (I read The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand, it took me 12 days and yes, it really pumped me up)Meanwhile, continue with the newspaper DAILY.So, it's been one month now. Don't expect anything from yourself yet. By this time, you have a cursory vocabulary bank of 400-500 words and through extensive reading of newspaper and a novel, you have conditioned yourself for the next phase.2. Second Month: Hitting the Bull's Eye=>The typical "GRE" way Now it's time to learn some real vocabulary, for the next three weeks, don't think of anything else but vocabulary. There are three different sources for high and medium frequency words that I'm going to mention below, but the good thing is, most of the words from these word lists overlap.First Three Weeks:Sign up at Vocabulary.com. Select the Vocabulary.com Top 1000 and click on "Learn this list" which offers objective type practice questions. It's a good habit to practice these words after signing in as they keep a track of your learning curve and offer you the practice questions accordingly.Join the New GRE group on Facebook. It's the most active GRE group on Facebook right now. It will help you in two ways:Members post random GRE questions on this group, which will give you a rough idea of how the questions are going to be while you are still in the Vocabulary building phase.Secondly, it's a good source to prepare for quantitative section. As long as you are able to solve the math problems being posted over there, you can care-freely concentrate on your verbal preparation. You'll get access to some really USEFUL links.The next source of vocabulary that I referred to was 1500 Words from http://Majortests.com , shuffle between this and http://Vocabulary.com.The last but the "first" source is again, the word list at the end of "Word Power Made Easy". Meanwhile, don't forget to read the newspaper EXTENSIVELY, especially the Editorials.Now you are at a stage where you have a "faint" vocabulary word bank of 1500+ words, an extensive reading experience of a daily newspaper, a high-speed read novel and a fair idea of the level of verbal and quantitative GRE questions through Facebook group. Enough with the "Vocabulary Only" days, now it's time for some real action !!Fourth WeekTime to pick up the GRE preparations books: Now that you have enough vocabulary and reading habit in your armory, its time to use this raw material and shape it to fit the GRE examination pattern. Start with Official GRE by ETS. It will give you a clear idea of the pattern of the exam, but that's all its useful for. Don't expect it to be sufficient for practice problems. This week, just do (work out) this book, read news paper and nothing else. Also, keep a check on your performance while attempting sample problems in this book and identify your weakness: Is it RC or multiple blanks/synonyms3. Third month: Reach the top speed, end the preparation like a sprint racerFirst Two WeeksPick up Manhattan 5 lb, practice ALL the verbal exercises, don't leave a single question unanswered. Frankly speaking, once you are in momentum, these questions are not time consuming, either you know the answer, which is great, or you don't, which you can just look up in the answer key quickly. I stumbled upon the maths section of 5 lb, I liked it, it had all those problems which, though simple, are little tricky and trap you with wrong answer. I practiced quant from this book which prepared me to be ready with these kind of tricky questions. Then you can go through Kaplan GRE practice book, its a small e-book, wouldn't take much time but having finished two books will give you immense confidence and speed in problem solving. Another "thin" book that I quickly skimmed through (I'm telling you, once you are in momentum, these books will pass through in a fly) 1014 Practive Questions for the new GRE-The Princeton Review. You can also pick up books 7 and 8 from Manhattan GRE 1-8 series for RC and Sentence completion respectively.Last Two WeeksIts time to pick up what we have been letting off till now: AWA and Exam Practice Tests. For AWA, I'd read samples from Manhattan AWA. I really like the way they break down the technique to answer the AWA section, which makes it really easy to structure your thought. For more random RC practice with a timer, just visit Codecoax.com and it will pop up an RC for you. Lastly, practice as much full length exams as you can with TIMER. Practice atleast 5. For full length tests, here are some links that you can visit:20 online tests800Score's Free Full Length Revised GRE TestMyGRETutor's 4 free Full Length TestsKaplan's Free Practice Test Options for the GREPrinceton Review: Free GRE Full length testIts easy ! Its doable !! Just do it !!!Originally answered here: How to score 330+ in GRE in 3 months ?







Whee! GRE is the one exam I had a lot of fun preparing for.One year is plenty of time, so you're good to do. How you should go about preparing for the GRE depends a lot on where you stand right now.The Quantitative Reasoning (Math) part of the exam is fairly easy for anyone with an engineering background, so that can be tackled by solving a few practice tests to ensure that your speed and accuracy is adequate. Aim at getting ALL questions correct.The Verbal Reasoning part of the exam is where most Indian students need plenty of preparation. It's important to understand here that the VR part doesn't intend to test just your vocabulary, per se. Rather, it intends to test your reasoning and analytical skills, and vocabulary is just tool. Through comprehension exercises and other questions, the aim is to see how well you can analyze arguments and draw conclusions from a given text.Vocabulary Try and gauge your vocabulary by attempting a few tests given in the Barrons GRE book. If you feel it's decent (you know at least 50% of the words), your job is rather easy. In my case, I could attempt about 65%. If you feel it's lacking, there is this red book (now it is white) called Word Power Made Easy by Norman Lewis that a lot of students seem to love. I have only read it occasionally, so I don't have a strong opinion about it, but its etymology approach is useful, especially if you've never seen language that way. It is good for vocabulary, but you'd better ignore its grammar advice.Try to at least complete the word lists given in Barrons. It's not exhaustive, but it's a fairly good collection. There are about 3500 words in there, and it will take you a fair amount of time if your vocabulary isn't great to begin with. Expect to spend about 3-4 hours per word list.Apart from this, you can check out online resources tooReasoningThis will come largely with practice. As you work on the vocabulary, keep solving practice tests and analyze how many of your errors were not because of vocabulary issues but because of logical / reasoning issues. These are the ones you need to work on. You'll get better with practice, and will also improve your vocabulary alongside. As I said earlier, the GRE is not a test of raw vocabulary. Instead of merely mugging up words, try to put them in context. Get a feel of how those words are used, where those words are used. Get a sense of whether a word is used in an approving sense or a disapproving sense. Try to appreciate the nuances between words that appear very similar in meaning but are still not interchangeable.This is what will help you more, both in life and in the examination.Closing NotesIf you prepare well and prepare properly, you'd come off with a much stronger vocabulary and reasoning ability. This is a useful asset in academia, as well as in everyday life.Students who start with relatively low vocabulary and then ramp up significantly during GRE preparation often suffer from what I call obnoxious-word-usage-syndrome, where an over-enthusiastic attempt to use the newly acquired vocabulary results in prose that is not only pathetic but that often makes little sense. This can be easily remedied if you spend time in understanding exactly how / where a particular word is used (as mentioned above)







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is used by schools in most English speaking countries for admission into the Graduate program. It assesses the verbal, quantitative and writing skills of the student.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution.  So here are some tips to help you.1.  Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most.  Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2.  Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser.  Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3.  Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous.  When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4.  Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay. 5.  Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.Source: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE







GRE has three main components namely verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning and analytical writing. Your entire preparation process should revolve around acquiring good skills on these areas and mastering the concepts required.Some of the things which you can do to get the required concept clarity areQuantitative reasoning:The best part about GRE Math is the absence of things which most of us hate in Math - The integral calculus, trigonometry and other complicated stuff. GRE Math is mostly things which you learned in junior/ high school - Things like interger properties, word problems (rate of work, speed, probability etc) which can be solved with basic common sense. Not much beyond that.What makes the GRE so tricky is the interpretation of the questions part. Once you figure out what the question is asking, the math involved is definitely easier than what you faced in your high school. In fact, it is more fun as you don't need to write down each and every step and show your teacher on how you arrived at your answer. You just need to pick an answer. In short, the math section just tests your ability to reason with numbers.Verbal reasoning:Verbal reasoning section is even more simple with there being only 3 question types - text completion, critical reasoning and reading comprehension. The preparation process should be fully focused on knowing specific strategies for cracking these questions rather than generic preparation advocated.For example, use of flash cards for learning new words was very helpful in the earlier format of the test where antonyms and analogies were asked and there was more emphasis on rote learning of words. But, the current format focuses more on understanding not only the literal meaning of the words but also the metaphorical use of the word based on the context. For example, while the word 'opaque' literally means 'not transparent', it could also mean 'difficult to interpret or understand' if used in the right context. Similarly, there are no questions asking you to identify any grammar errors. Grammar is important only for your essay writing section. Hence, it makes sense not to rely on these old fashioned methods advocated by coaching institutes but to just keep focusing on the 3 question types.Analytical writing:Analytical writing section asks you to write 2 essays - one on "The Issue" and the other on "The Argument". The major difference here is in the first essay you are asked to take a stand on a complex issue whereas in the second essay you are asked to dissect the logic behind an already taken stand or position.How do I prepare for this? You just need to follow a simple routine and you are guaranteed to score well in this section.Choose - Structure - Write - Compare - Improve - ChooseStep 1: You choose a topic where you already have some well written sample essays. You can pick these up either in the official site or from the many blogs available online.Step 2: Come up with a structure and an outline.Step 3: Write an essay by developing the structure and the outline.Step 4: Compare it with other essays written on the topic.Step 5: Rewrite your essay to improve it.Step 6: Go to Step 1.--------------------If you do all of the above, you are going to definitely score well on your GRE.Check out Magnus Prep's GRE Program if you are looking for some great mentors to help with your GRE preparation.Cheers!







I’ve been tutoring the GRE for a number of years. The below is inspired by the many sessions I’ve had with students, many of whom have gone on to do very well on the GRE. A lot of it is also specific to the revised GRE, which made its debut in August 2011.  1. Use official material When preparing for the GRE, no questions prepare you better than the ones written by ETS, which is responsible for writing the questions you will see test day. As much as possible, stick to the questions in the Official Guide to the GRE so you can wrap your mind around how the test writers want you to reason.  You may not think that it makes that much of a difference, but many publishers out there have questions that require you to make certain leaps of logic—or employ questionable logic—that you will never have to do on the actual test. Then there is the fact that many questions simply aren’t as difficult or nuanced as the questions you’ll see test day. This is a problem many students encounter when using Kaplan—you are essentially taking a dumbed down version of the GRE, with often poorly constructed questions to boot.  2. Take practice tests There is no better way to prepare for test day than actually taking a mock test. You will train yourself to sit for three plus hours staring at a screen, as you are pummeled by an onslaught of GRE problems.  If possible, use only the official tests, found in the Official Guide to the New GRE. There are four such tests—two that comes with the book, and two that are computer-based and come with the CD that is part of the book. Stagger these out  over the four weeks you are prepping, so that there are no fewer than five days between tests and no more than ten days. If you are studying longer, you might also want to consider Manhattan GRE tests (see below).  Finally, practice tests will allow you to better assess your strengths and weaknesses, and help inform your study sessions in between tests.  3. Focus on weaknesses Make sure not to get carried away developing those areas in which you already excel. For instance, if you are generally strong at math problem solving questions, but if you dislike Data Interpretation (that’s the section with all the graphs), then the last thing you want to do is avoid that section. Instead make it a priority to become confident and effective at all questions relating to Data Interpretation.   4. Use the best material While official material is clearly the best prep out there, it doesn’t necessarily provide the most effective strategies. You may want to take a look at Princeton Review for helpful big picture strategies. As for specific strategies for almost every aspect of the GRE—from permutations to convoluted paragraph arguments—the Manhattan GRE books (MGRE) are the best. MGRE also has six practice tests that mimic the actual test very well (though this more so with math than with verbal). For more practice on the online format, Magoosh also offers questions that are similar to--and often more difficult--than those found on the actual test. (I should probably mention that I work for Magoosh :))  Of course there is a lot of material out there that should be avoided, especially in terms of practice content. Here is a helpful breakdown: 2013 GRE Book Reviews







Dear GRE Aspirant,The main purpose of GRE is to judge your proficiency on the basis of the mathematical, logical and verbal aptitudes. Graduate schools use GRE to assess your readiness to undertake a full-time Graduate Program at a university abroad.While numerous books have published by various sources that act as appropriate training material, there are a handful of books that give you a detailed conceptual learning.Some of these are:#1 The Holy Book: The Official Guide to the GREThis must-have book while preparing for the test is the one straight from the test makers - ETS. It gives you a comprehensive overview of the entire test as a whole and helps you to get a better hang of the test format, pattern and question types.The Official Guide explains everything about the test in detail from the different question modes, scoring and time systems, the purpose of every section, the section descriptions and the question examples in each section distributed by difficulty level. It comprises of the GRE Math Review and there are practice questions at the end of each Math section of this review. In addition, the Guide comes with 4 practice tests – 2 paper based and 2 computer based that are in the CD that accompanies the book. While this book is the most authentic source for all sections of the test, it seriously lacks the practice questions in number and difficulty levels too. You can use this Guide to gain an overview of the tests, however, using only this book for the test could be a serious drawback due to lack of practice materials.#2 The Holy Trinity: Official Super Power PackThis set does its name complete justice – it is indeed the Power Pack that comprises of the aforementioned Official Guide along with two more books for extensive practice.You can gain a very serious understanding of the questions that will be in the test and also practice them in plenty using this aptly named power pack. Since this is an official source, all the information will be related to adequate practice and strategies to solve difficult questions. It would not cover some essential time-saving tricks that will help you get an upper hand in the test#3 The Heavyweight Champion: Manhattan 5lbAnother aptly named test guide, the Manhattan 5 lb is a book that actually weighs more than 5 lb. It comprises of practice materials for each section that has been segregated according to the topics.This book can prove to be immensely helpful in making the concepts concrete through the massive selection of practice questions and the detailed descriptions for the answers. Also the book helps you get familiar with some tricks that will prove essential on the test day – for both Quants and Verbal. Many test takers have claimed this book to be as close to the actual test as anything can be. However, if you are looking at it from a study or introductory guide’s point of view, you would be disappointed since it for practice only.All in all, it’s a guide that you would approach after you are sure of your primary study and are confident of solving the questions.#4 Make your own Menu: Manhattan Prep's 8 GRE Strategy GuidesAnother one of Manhattan Prep wonders – there are 8 guides however this time instead of 5lb worth of practice data all in one. It also comes along with 6 computer based practice. As opposed to the 5lb, this book has divided each and every component of the test into 8 different books that again in a contrasting move to the 5 lb book – have detailed description of the concepts, the different question types for these concepts, the detailed answers and tricks for solving these answers successfully and in a timely manner. Do note that this book focuses more on the theories and solving techniques and the practice questions are comparatively lesser in number. You can choose the concept that you are lagging in and study it using the specific guide.#5 The Beginner’s Handbook: Cracking the GRE Premium by Princeton ReviewThis handbook is more like an introductory manual for the GRE. It is a complimentary book to the Official Guide and it provides a lot more theoretical data. It comes along with 2 computer based tests with detailed explanations and includes access to the online video tutorials of Princeton Review.However, that is all that it is – a book for the beginners. The fact that the book consists mainly of general overview is a serious drawback. You would need to practice for the GRE using alternative sources since the book lacks extensive practice materials.#6 The All Inclusive Trifecta: GRE Complete by KaplanThis Kaplan Prep system comes with the 3 books – Quants, Verbal and Premier (tests and strategies); an access to the online question bank, 5 practice tests, an online study plan and lastly a CD with information about the tests and grad school application process as a whole.This set is indeed a thorough guide to the test and lacks neither the practice data nor the explanatory data. The partially paper based and partially computer based data makes it a very conveniently adaptive format of study.However, the book seems to lack adequate number of questions for the quantitative section.#7 Know your numbers!: GRE Math Prep Course by NovaThis book, as the title suggests, concentrates only on the Quantitative Aptitude section of the test.While there are other, more comprehensive and all sections inclusive books published by Nova (eg. GRE Complete Prep Course), Nova press is best known for this Math wonder. It includes the concepts broken down into categories that are essentially created by them. It helps you know the type of strategies necessary to tackle your weak areas and practice the same using a plethora of available questions. Also, the questions are broken down by the difficulty level which makes it easier to track the level of progress. Extra sources for Verbal would have to be referred since this specific book is limited to the Quant section only.#8 Know your words!: Barron’s SourcesUnlike the Nova book, Barron’s publishes study material mainly for the Verbal section – the vocabulary related data.While there are a number of books that you can refer, Barron’s GRE is the most popular book which is an advanced guide to practice the tougher questions from all sections. Besides this, Barron’s is reputed for the vocabulary related data it publishes like the word lists that based on the frequency of the words on the tests like Barron’s 333 and Essential Words for GRE. Barron’s is one source that would be trickier for those who don’t have their basics in place or those who plan to prepare last minute.Even though a lot of books might help you in your GRE preparation, it is always advisable to have a study plan that will help you differentiate your stronger and weaker areas.While books might help you with concepts, it is always better if you get personalized attention for GRE as you can immediately clarify all your doubts as and when they arise.Make it a point to choose the best method of learning and this will help you score high.According to me, to prepare for an online test, methods with online preparation and actual test experience providers is very important. Check GREedge for GRE and Admission guidance to score better GRE scores and best Admits.All the best and Happy learning!







Recommended Books - These books are highly recommended for GRE preparation, listed with their pros and cons -1) The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test. By ETS.A must have because right now since ETS is more knowledgeable than any one else about the new format of GRE.Includes around 100 sample questions organized according to difficulty level.Has real essays written by test takers along with the ETS people’s evaluation and comments.2) Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesThese books are great.Majority of them (6 out of 8) are devoted to math: Algebra, fractions, geometry, number properties, word problems and quantitative comparisons. The practice questions in Math are divided into three sections easy, medium and hard.There are two books devoted to the verbal section: Reading comprehension and Text completion & sentence equivalences. The books dealing with verbal section consists of more challenging questions than what actually appears in the test.The interface is very similar to that of the actual test, and so is the difficulty.3) Barron’s New GREA good book for Quant.Does not have the word listYou can download the word list online or xerox it from an old Barron’s.Includes sample tests.Also includes a CD with stimulated tests (around 2).Other Books - The above mentioned books are actually enough for all the preparation you will need. But if you want some more books for extra practise, consider the following -3) Cracking the NEW GRE by Princeton.A good book for practice. Nothing special though.4) Kaplan NEW GRE PremierI have not used the book personally, but my friends swear this book is the reason they score high in their exam.Apart from that, I recommend getting your hands on the following too -(i) Nova GRE Math Bible (softcopy) - Excellent for math preparation. Has 1000s of questions organized according to difficulty levels and topics. Must Have!(ii) Voca Game based on Barron’s Word List - An excellent refreshing multiple choice game where you need to guess a word’s meaning. Has ALL Barron’s Words.(iii) Big Book (softcopy) - This book had a lot of old GRE papers but is now out of publication. Even though it has old GRE questions, they really help you increase your reading speed for RCs and test your words memory as well.You will also find the following online resources handy when preparing for the GRE -1) Practice tests and resources for high school, college and graduate tests - Though their RCs section has weird questions and answers.2) Home | Tyrannosaurus Prep - A fun word game for GRE and SAT though don’t rely solely on it to learn words as they do not have even half the important words that are present in Barrons. YOU CANNOT ESCAPE BARRON’S WORD LIST.Other Tips for GRE -Apart from that, here are some tips that you might find useful during your preparation-Preparing by yourself is absolutely fine. But if you do want to join a class, join Princeton/Kaplan classes (Quite expensive though). Or prepare on your own. Certainly doable.You need at least 2-3 months of preparation.Verbal preparation and memorizing words consume 80% of the time for most students. Start with high frequency word lists (around 500 words) to remember the important words first. Easily available on net. Then go on to Barron’s 5000 words list.You need to do Barron’s 5000 word list at least 2-3 times to remember most of the words.Don’t ignore math. Students often loose a lot of marks due to silly mistakes.READ THE QUESTIONS PROPERLY! Don’t ponder too long on a question though. Mark it for review and move on!







GRE Preparation Books and GRE Study Materials:Educational Testing Service (ETS): The conducting authority of GRE, ETS produces some of the best GRE preparation books. In fact, ETS’s official GRE study materials are must buys for every GRE aspirant. The advantage of preparing from ETS guides is that the sample papers and practice sets are in sync with the actual GRE test. The best in the series is of course the ETS super power pack which includes a bundle of verbal and quantitative GRE preparation books, test preparation materials, expert tips among others. Besides, ETS offers a comprehensive guide which aims at clearing conceptual doubts of the sections.List of ETS GRE study materials:Official super power packThe Official Guide to the GREThe Official Guide to the quantitative reasoningThe Official Guide to verbal reasoningManhattan prep: Manhattan prep’s books are some of the most popular GRE study materials for GRE aspirants.Of course, like in ETS you can go for the whole set or individual GRE preparation books. The Manhattan Prep GRE set includes 8 guides ontopics likeWord problems, decimals, Number properties, algebra among others.A word of caution here-Don’t use the Manhattan prep GRE set as a last minute study tool. This comprehensive set should be a part of your elaborate preparation strategy while you are attempting the topics.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Manhattan Prep:5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems500 Essential Words: GRE Vocabulary Flash CardsManhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesKaplan: Study abroad exams and Kaplan go hand in hand.The education provider has not only been guiding students in their preparation but also offers a wide range of GRE study materials for students preparing for the test. Kaplan’s most popular package is an annual GRE Premier and GRE Complete. Kaplan’s GRE premier has an incredible 2200 practice questions and 6 full length practice tests. Further, it also includes an online QuizBank which has 500 questions for the aspirants to solve.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Kaplan:GRE Premier 2016 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Premier 2017 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Vocabulary FlashcardsGRE Math WorkbookGRE 2017 Strategies, Practice & Review with 4 Practice TestsBarron’s: Known as a master test prep provider, Barron’slist of GRE preparation books offer a comprehensive set of tips and practice tests for GRE aspirants. Barron’s GRE is of course the most popular of the lot. Currently, in its 21st edition, the GRE study materials contains strategies for all the sections- verbal, analytical, and quantitative along with model tests and answer keys. What more. Barron’s GRE study material also gives the buyer free access to its GRE online courses including practice questions and video tutorials.Virant: Vibrant brings out one of the few good GRE preparation books which cater to the analytical writing section of GRE. The most popular of the lot is the latest edition of Vibrant’s GRE Analytical Writing, which offers very simple and clear strategies to ace this section.Best part about these GRE preparation books is that they offer sample essays on topics similar to that which come in GRE tests.GRE preparation- Online and practice sets: There are many GRE study materials available online that students can use besides books. In fact, you have the option of downloading pdfs on the various topics. You can even take mock tests online to check your time-management skills. You can either download the materials or buy online preparation kits Besides that, you can also refer to IELTS preparation sample papers.







You should definitely get the ETS Official Guides for the GRE if taking the exam before August 1 or Revised GRE if taking the exam after Aug 1.Barron's has been and still is great for their list of vocab words.  A common misconception is that the new/revised GRE doesn't test vocab.  The revised GRE does test vocab, however it's vocab in context meaning that you will have clues from a sentence to help you. So Barron's is still a good bet.The GRE Big Book (again by ETS) is arguably the best source of practice questions for the GRE. It contains over 5,000 questions from 27 actual tests.  The major catch is that it's not longer sold by ETS, but you could search for used ones. I've seen them go for as much as $300.Outside of books, online/computer-based tools are also great for GRE prep as they provide an experience more similar to the actual exam than books do.  Again, ETS is the best source of questions with their Powerprep (for the current GRE) and Powerprep 2 (for the revised GRE). But Powerprep lacks explanations to questions.  My company, Magoosh (http://gre.magoosh.com), has online products for both the current GRE and the new GRE with video explanations for most questions.  There are several others with products for the current GRE and I have yet to see another company with a new GRE online product with the new question types.I'd suggest using a combination of books and computer-based tools to prep. And using the Powerprep tests to assess your progress.







Attending school, we often forget about an appropriate time for learning. How long you should study for the is an important consideration. However, there is no one simple answer. The Graduate Record Exam (GRE) is an exam taken by college graduates who are applying to graduate school. The GRE General Test is composed of three sections: verbal reasoning, analytic reasoning, and analytic writing. The four books listed below offer instructions on how to complete each section of the test, strategies for being successful before and during the test, and practice questions to get you ready for test day. While there are a lot of study guides out there, these four are the top in the industry and earned the reputation they deserve by providing high-quality material that prepares students for this important exam. With one of these books and some hard work and dedication, you can be on your way to earning a high score on the GRE and entrance into your graduate school of choice. Click https://pro-homework-help.com if you need help in study. If you are a quantum physicist with a penchant for vocab who enjoys spending your time, solving convoluted math problems you do not need much time for preparation. If cramming means two to three weeks, then you don’t have to be our aforementioned quantum physicist. For those that are relatively adept at math, you can score well with little preparation. Preparation for the test will depend on the amount of time you have available and your personal preferences for how to prepare. When taking the computer-delivered GRE General Test, you are free to skip questions that you might have difficulty answering. The testing software has a "mark and review" feature that enables you to mark questions you would like to revisit during the time provided to work on that section. The testing software also lets you view a complete list of all the questions in the section on which you're working, indicates whether you've answered each question and identifies the questions you've marked for review. The GRE is broken down into three primary components: verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, and analytical writing. For the verbal reasoning section, test takers have two 30-minute periods to answer two sets of 20 questions. Test-takers answer two sets of 20 quantitative reasoning questions, with 35 minutes to answer each set. The analytical writing section consists of two essays, for which test takers get 30 minutes to write each. The verbal and quantitative reasoning sections are graded on a 130- to 170-point scale in 1-point increments, and the analytical writing section is scored on a 0-6 scale in half-point increments.Every student decides what he or she needs for an exam, what resources are better, etc. Many GRE test takers are many years removed from the basic tenets of high school math, which play an important part in the quantitative section of the test. If you're rusty, it's important to revisit the concepts of algebra and geometry that you learned in high school. During your time in school, be sure to read as much as possible to expand your vocabulary so that you can decipher unfamiliar words, testing experts say.ETS: GRE The Official Guide to the Revised General TestEducational Testing Services (ETS), the maker of the GRE, offers the only official guide to the test. Known as the authoritative guide to the GRE for good reason, because it's made by the same company who creates the test, it is one of the most recommended test-taking guides. This guide has a good reputation because they can prepare you for exactly what you should expect on the test. This guide comes with four complete real test (two are available using the included CD-ROM), hundreds of authentic test questions, detailed descriptions of the Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning Content Areas including tips for answering each type of question, and an overview of the two types of Analytic Writing Tasks you will encounter on the test including scored sample responses with actual raters' comments.GRE Prep 2017 with 8 Practice TestsTest Prep (Argo Brothers) Lot of practice questions. It's like condensed form of Kaplan with useful information. Good book if you want to practice lot of questions in 1-2 weeks. It has lot of typos as reported by some users but highly recommended. If you have any questions or if you need any clarification on any problem then you can submit a free ticket on their website (it's a free service)Manhattan PrepManhattan Prep, a leader in test-taking readiness, offers a wide range of products to help you prepare for the exam. They offer 8 test-taking strategy guides, focusing on each of the tests content areas including Algebra; Fractions, Decimals, & Percents; Geometry; Number Properties; and Word Problems. Also available from Manhattan Prep is the book "Reading Comprehension & Essays GRE Strategy Guide," 500 Essential Words: GRE Vocasbulary flashcards, and more.Barron's GRE: 21st EditionBarron is a name that is well-known in the testing industry and their GRE preparation book stands up to the name. This 624 page book comes with one diagnostic test and two full-length models of the actual test structure reflected in the GRE exam. Additionally, not only are all answers provided for the sample tests but Barron provides explanations for the answers as well to help you fully prepare for what you will encounter on the GRE. With purchase of this book you can access to Barron's online GRE Course and ipad app for essay preparation.Kaplan's GRE Premier 2017This comprehensive new package includes strategies, test taking instructions, and practice questions to help you tackle this difficult exam. This book also includes a digital iPad download and DVD and online access to 22,00+ questions. It offers 6 online Practice Tests. You also get free DVD and mobile application to study. This book is stocked with a wealth of test-taking strategies to ensure you are successful. Kaplan also provides academic support from faculty on their Facebook page and a guarantee that if you use their resources and strategies you will score higher on the GRE General Test or receive a full refund.Best GRE Books 2016 – 2017 | GRE Book ReviewsWhile here at Magoosh, I’ve reviewed the all best GRE prep books over the years. Today, I’m happy to announce that I’ve made some updates to our Best GRE Books List! While not all of these books are from this year (some are far from it), the list offers my honest GRE book reviews and recommendations for the best GRE book options on the market.Best GRE Books 2016 – 2017It’s 2016 and, to be honest, not a lot has changed in the GRE prep book landscape in the last few years. This is good news for you—you can head to Amazon and buy inexpensive (new or used) versions of many of the best GRE books below and know that you’re not sacrificing quality for price.In this post, I list the best GRE prep books on the market and explain the positives and negatives of each. If you’re just interested in reading about one or two, use the links in the Table of Contents to jump to that section of the post.Best GRE Prep BooksWithout any further ado, I present you with the list of the top 8 best GRE prep books (in order) and three books deserving of an honorable mention (in no particular order).Most publishers change very little content from one edition to the other. If I can save you money by recommending an old edition of a great book, then I’m going to do that!1. Magoosh GRE BookBetween the covers, this 468-page book packs more than a hundred practice questions accompanied by comprehensive explanations—all pulled directly from our renowned online GRE prep product. Not only is the book loaded with tons of useful information, but each question and answer has been triple checked by industry experts to maximize students’ learning.2. Free GRE eBooksTangible or not, the eBooks are free and they provide a wealth of helpful strategies. Along with the rest of Magoosh’s free GRE resources, they are a great way to start your GRE journey, before deciding on which book to purchase.3. ETS’s The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test, 2nd EditionThis is the holy grail of prep. If you can only buy one book, this is it. The tone of the voice may not be as friendly as almost any other book on the market. But if you can bear the dry content, you are getting by far the best practice since ETS writes the questions for the test.Throw in two GRE computer-based tests, which are in a CD that accompanies the book, and the best GRE book on the market gets even better.4. ETS’s Official GRE Verbal Reasoning Practice Questions & Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning Practice QuestionsThe strategies are nothing new (you can learn all of those from this blog), but this book is a must-buy, if only for the quality of its practice questions. The Quantitative Reasoning book, on the other hand, contains both helpful practice problems and useful new strategies. A word of warning: these new math problems are really challenging. They’ll definitely require some extra attention, and will help you up your quant game.5. Barron’s 6 GRE Practice TestsThis book is not perfect. But it is better than the Barron’s general GRE guide.6. Practicing to Take the GRE General Test, 10th EditionThis is a version of the old GRE, and the old, old GRE at that (the tests were taken from 1991, a year some of you had yet to enter the world). Yes, the math is much easier. Still, these are questions created by the writers of test, so the traps are classical GRE. I wouldn’t use this as a foundation for my GRE test prep, but check out the review to see if it’s a good fit for your studies: Practicing to Take the GRE, 10th Edition Book Review.The Reading Comprehension passages are still tough and make for good practice. And while they’ve cut the Antonym and Analogy sections, the antonym questions still make for good practice (the analogies contain many ridiculous words, such as names of tools and sewing implements).7. The Manhattan GRE Series (MGRE) – Books One Through EightThs series contains eight (mostly excellent) books written by those with years of tutoring experience. This fact really shines through in the authorial voice this series uses. You feel as though there is a highly intelligent, but fun, laid back tutor walking you through the material.The six free online tests you get by simply buying any one of the eight books makes MGRE a no-brainer if you want expert guidance and great practice.8. Vibrant’s GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to Real Essay Topics BooksBook 1These books from Vibrant Publishing GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to Real Essay Topics and GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to the Real Essay Topics – Book 2 are a welcome addition to the GRE literature scene. Not because they’re perfect, but because they contain GRE sample essays … something few books have. They’ll help you craft a decent response to a range of GRE essay topics. Not required reading, but definitely helpful if you want to improve your essay score.GRE Book Honorable MentionThis book is generally substandard, and if after reading my review (see below), you are surprised I’m pairing it with this top five list, then I owe a quick explanation: the inclusion of the The Princeton Review book speaks to the generally low quality of GRE prep books out there.9. The Princeton Review, Cracking the GRE, 2017 EditionThese strategies are mostly absent from the Official Guide (though I share similar strategies in the eBook and on the blog).That said, two major caveats: Do not use this book if you are looking for a high score. The strategies are very generic; they apply to most standardized tests, and they won’t help you understand the nuances or advanced concepts in the GRE. Secondly, do not do the questions, unless you are scoring way below 50% and are just starting off on the GRE. From this book glean some helpful strategies that you can use on actual test questions. Otherwise, this book is not of much use.Since this book remains almost exactly the same from year to year, here’s the review of an older version: Princeton Review: Cracking the New GRE 2012 Book Review10. Kaplan New GRE Premier 2011-2012 Book ReviewThe 2014 Kaplan book is no different from the previous two years. Test prep strategies that are very high-level and not that innovative, followed by subpar questions. That is, these questions aren’t like what you’ll see test day in terms of difficulty or style. It’s better to not waste one’s time with this book.McGraw Hill’s New GRE with 8 Practice TestsHere are dozens, if not hundreds, of GRE books on the market. Good luck!







For all those who are preparing for GRE / TOEFL exams, Here's a collection of all materials (Books, Notes, Videos, Audio) I used.Simple steps1. Go to link - ETS-material - Google Drive2. Download the zipNote - Since file size is large, download can take considerable amount of time.PS - If you have more notes and want to share, send it via mail.GRE materialTo answer your question, these are some of the GRE Books5lbMagooshNovaETS Official GUide to GRE 2nd EditionGruberBarron's GRE 12th EditionPrinceton WordsPrinceton Review - Verbal WorkoutRS Agarwal Quantitative AptitudeManhattan GRE 2nd EditionGRE Practice TestBigBookCracking the GRE 2013 EditionSeries501 Series (includes Reading Comprehension, Sentence Completion, Quantitative exams)800 Series (Verbal tests)Essay preparation, Math Review booksWord Power Made Easy solutionBunch of Word lists -ManhattanBarronKaplan84018533000#GRE #TOEFL #ETS #Preparations #Masters







This link offers the best GRE Guide: The Ultimate GRE Guide - Cafe EnginerdThe verbal section in the link is described as follows,Verbal Prep:The key to cracking verbal is to know the words. If you get the words, it is just a simple English Fill in the Blank then.So where to do the words. Follow this method and you will crack the GRE:Read this entire book- Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition (English, Paperback, NORMAN LEWIS). It is a fairly small book that will tell you the origins of all the words and second half of the book is filled with words alphabetically. If you do this book, you are ready for the GRE. Please buy this book, its only for 100rs and will certainly change your future.Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition - Buy Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition Online at Best Prices in India - Flipkart.comThe Magoosh App (Complete it 3 TIMES, Not a JOKE)It is my opinion that rather than doing 10000 words while reading them only once, do only 2000-4000 words and read them 3-4 times. It is not humanly possible to remember the words in one go. The best method to remember words is to by remembering the example. Make sure you read the words so many times that you must remember not only the example but even the word that is next in line ;p. You can also do words from those Barron 800 or other 1000 words book. But they will simply be a repetition from Word Power.After you feel satisfied with the words, you can start off with the 5lb and other practice books. There is also some GMAT 1000. Do essays properly and understand how to read them. Reading is not as important as understanding what to read. Learn how to read. There is no method in this apart from quickly skimming and understanding what was written in which para. Read the question and find the answer properly in that para. Also, learn which essays to leave during the exam as some are very tough (literally greek) and will waste your time for the other easy questions.For more doubts about MS in US visit us: Masters - Cafe Enginerd and send your queries to cafeenginerd@gmail.com. Happy to Help!







“I studied in a Telugu medium school. My English skills are just okay, and I find the GRE Verbal Reasoning section intimidating. How do I face it?”“Ever since I turned a teen, I had been force-fed on The Hindu, Reader’s Digest, and the Time. Reading is now my favorite pastime. Yet, why do I find the Verbal Reasoning section of the GRE challenging?”At and between these two extremes is where students preparing for GRE fall. In my experience of 7 years as the Co founder of GREedge and having trained 30000+ students, I have realized that the Verbal Reasoning section is no cake walk for anyone. It can be, with methodical approach and some serious practice.Let’s approach this problem backward by analyzing what exactly can be challenging in the Verbal section of GRE:The answer choices can be tricky. For most TC, SE, & RC questions, while you may easily eliminate some of the choices, you will often be left with at least two choices that are close to being the correct answer choice. Choosing the correct one among them can be challenging.You might find some of the words in the question statement or the answer choices alien to you. In SE, where you have to choose two words with similar meanings for the blanks, this can particularly be challenging.The subject of the RC passage might be unfamiliar to you. Club it with some strange vocabulary and difficult language, and you can be thrown out of gear.“Choose all that apply” type of questions in RC. Considering that you don’t get any points for partially correct answers, this can be quite a pain, if you are not prepared.The logic and reasoning that is required in solving TC triple-blank questions and the RC passage questions can be challenging.Okay, now to the solutions. How do you overcome these challenges?Start by learning the most-important GRE words, which is about 3500 in number. Remember, GRE vocab is more about context and so focus on the contexts in which the words are used. The usage statements in dictionaries will help you in this aspect.As a simple example, though the words, “inflexible” and “obdurate” are synonymous, you wouldn’t use one in place of the other, right? It would be wrong to call an “inflexible schedule” to be an “obdurate schedule,” because the word, “obdurate,” refers to someone who is not flexible since he doesn’t wish to be so. An “obdurate” person refuses to move to sensitive emotional appeals.So, the point is, focus on the contextual usage of words. A good place to understand such nuances is the “synonym discussions” in Merriam Webster dictionary.Next, read good quality newspapers and periodicals. Read on your topic of interest. To describe the technique, I would like to share my personal experience here.I just got an update on the swimming competition at Rio Olympics and here’s what I learnt out of this snippet from The Guardian:I’ve been asked by reader Olympia Diamond if we ever got to the bottom of the manky green pool situation from yesterday. Yes and no? FINA put a statement out yesterday that included the following: FINA can confirm that the reason for the unusual water color observed during the Rio diving competitions is that the water tanks ran out of some of the chemicals used in the water treatment process.“As a result, the pH level of the water was outside the usual range, causing the discoloration. The FINA Sport Medicine Committee conducted tests on the water quality and concluded that there was no risk to the health and safety of the athletes, and no reason for the competition to be affected.”The old ran-out-of-chemicals defense. The water polo pool (next door) has a tinge of green to it now as well. I sense this story has some way to run.(A quick tip: FINA is the International Swimming Federation that is authorized by the International Olympic Committee to conduct international aquatic contests.)Okay, I might have just read this article, formed my own opinion of FINA, and move on to the next article, if I wasn’t going to take up my GRE. But, since I have my GRE now, I give it a second reading. I first understand the subject. It is about the sub-standard pool condition in the 2016 Olympics.I then mark new words (“manky” is one) in the article, look up the meaning, synonym/antonym, and usage statements in the dictionary. I open an Excel sheet and mark all such words that I pick up during the day. (Not trusting my memory, I do a weekly revision of this list.)Next, I look at places where the author is giving his opinion. Is he being critical of FINA or is he being supportive? Which is the statement in this article that indicates his opinion or tone? How is he concluding the write-up? Are there any gaps in his argument? Is he sounding biased?With this approach, you build not only your vocabulary but also your logic and reasoning skills. Gradually, move toward reading topics of serious interest, such as the Opinion and Editorial write-ups. Such writings are of more serious nature and you will get exposure to higher-order words, sentences, arguments, and contexts. This would largely help you in your Verbal Reasoning section of GRE.Finally, practice a number of TC, SE, & RC exercises. While there are trainers aplenty, go for quality trainers who know their job. Stick to the study plan that they provide. Practice a lot and take up timed tests. You will excel!







These are the things I followed and managed to get a pretty decent score after preparing for 15-16 days. Barrons and Kaplan are excellent books to prepare for GRE, but before you start the real preparation, you want to know as many words as possible, for which the general suggestion everyone gives is reading Barrons wordlist.Most people do start off trying to read and remember those 3500 words from Barrons wordlist. But as I have noticed, a very high percentage of people give up within the first week and probably even before they finish words starting with 'a'. That might be for the following reasons:way too many words: if you have an amazing vocabulary and you are aware of most of the words, then its fine. But I am assuming thats not the case with most of us. Once you actually start reading and you know how much time you take to go through say a 100 words, its very discouraging to have that huge a set of words ahead of you.words are in alphabetical order: you have this whole page of words, say 40-50 words in a single page, so many times the first 3-4 characters will be the same for all of them, that is very very confusing. You will spend hours trying to memorize and yet you will horribly fail.content is compressed: if you buy the book having wordlist or if you manage to get a pdf copy, you will notice that the words and meanings are printed in small font and there is barely any space to write down any notes.So this is what I did:I came across this website http://www.majortests.com where you get 15 wordlists, each wordlist containing 100 words, thats 1500 words totally. In each wordlist, these 100 words are again subdivided into lists of 10 words each and now these 10 words dont start with the same letter. For example, 1st 10 words will be "abhor, bigot, counterfeit, enfranchise, hamper, kindle, noxious, placid, remuneration, talisman", and then the next 10 words will be "abrasive, bilk, covert, engender, hangar, knotty, nuance, plagiarism, renown, tangent" and so on. So its easier to read and remember these words.Secondly, the wordlists that you download from the above website have  exactly 20 words per page, and half of the page (right hand side column) is left blank to take down notes.If you still find it difficult to memorize words, or you want to be a 100% sure that you remember the words you read once, then you could try mnemonics, an easy way to remember meanings (thanks to gp). Go to http://www.mnemonicdictionary.com and type the word you want mnemonic for, and choose from the list of mnemonics available. This website is just like quora in the sense that mnemonics are arranged in the descending order of the number of upvotes they get. I used to write these mnemonics as notes in the wordlists I had got printed, that way I didnt have to go to the website again even if I forgot the mnemonic.(In the end, if you think you have a lot of time left, then you could go through Barrons high frequency words wordlist, you dont want to miss out on any obvious ones.)Once you are done with wordlists, then starts your actual preparation. As I mentioned earlier, go through ETS, Barrons and Kaplan practice books. Read the tips and tricks given at the beginning of every chapter, trust me they help a lot. Then go through the practice questions given at the end of every chapter. Do verify whether your answers are correct or not, that is the whole point of solving them.Go through as many practice tests as possible. A safe minimum number of tests to be taken would be 10. You get 2 tests from ETS, 2 from Barrons if you have bought the book, and you will find several other paid/unpaid tests online. If you are taking online tests, make sure you have good internet connection probably 3g, you dont want any test to go waste mid way through. Take complete tests: no matter how confident you are about your quant, no matter how painstaking and boring essay writing may seem, its necessary you practice sitting for 4 hours in from of a computer and get an estimate of time required per question. Once you get the score after giving the practice test, go through the questions you answered wrong, even if you have got a good score. It would be a good idea to leave practice tests given by ETS for last, it gives you an idea of what the questions look like in the actual GRE, since they use the same formatting at both places.Even though I mentioned 15-16 days in the beginning, I think preparing for around 2 months would be a better idea.







The below study method is tried and tested by me and I'm hopeful that it would help you guys :) To excel at GRE Verbal, one has to have a good vocabulary. To bag a good vocabulary, make it a habit of reading newspapers daily because newspapers offer wide range of working vocabulary  related to different genres. I would recommend American newspapers (like Nytimes.com)  because the writing style closely matches with that of the content that appears in the exam. Coming to Indian newspapers, we all know that it has to be THE HINDU and nothing else. Observe every new word and understand its meaning. Revise it regularly.(Vocabulary.com  does a very good job for you in this. It tells you everything that you need to know about a word. Also, you can make word lists).  Try to use the words in your daily life.  One to two months of this reading should suffice. Now coming to cracking the individual sections of the verbal. 1)Reading Comprehension.Follow the simple steps mentioned in Manhattan Reading Comprehension book and practice diligently. 2)Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence Follow Manhattan text completion and sentence equivalence book. Very good hacks are mentioned in the book. It would be very useful. Again practice thoroughly. 3)  Practice questions from the book Manhattan 5lb practice as the above mentioned books do not offer sufficient number of questions. This book offers wide range of books in varying difficult levels.  In short, a good reading vocabulary equipped with the hacks mentioned in the above mentioned books will get you above 157 easily. Happy learning :)







Thanks for the A2AThe fact that you have a good hold of atleast one branch of English usage is a strength. As for what you said, it’s not all about memorizing lists and reading newspapers. You just need to know some of the common words that are used in native English speaking nations and since you (like me) are a non-native speaker, you’re finding it difficult. But keep in mind that some of these words are going to pervade your regular vocabulary and feature in your regular usage, so even if you do have to memorize it, don’t feel that it is not going to be useful. As kids, we all memorized the alphabets and the simple words from the alphabets.Secondly, reading newspapers or for that matter anything with dense verbal content, you’re increasing your skills of comprehension, which is so necessary in the actual exam (also to reiterate my point, some of the difficult words will also be used in the passages). My personal opinion is that mastering reading comprehension is a sure way of getting a great score in the test, since even the text completion and sentence equivalence questions you solve would necessitate comprehending them (and they are quite dense with respect to content). So reading stuff that enhances your knowledge, uses good vocabulary and is of a varied nature when it comes to subject content is always helpful for the test, and a good newspaper is something that fits the billing perfectly.As for the preparation, if you want to do it unconventionally, I’d suggest you read books that have good content in them and uses above average vocabulary and try to absorb the gist of the text. Search for word meanings when you come across them, try to use them, so that you’ll know how to use words in context. Make a list of such words and make sentences to use them in. If you can’t read books, search for articles in a variety of subjects and do the same with it. The more topics you’re comfortable with, the better chances you have of scoring well. This is more time consuming than the conventional process and needs a lot of dedication and efforts and I assure you that it’d be worth it.







GRE Prep Online Guides and TipsHow to Ace GRE Verbal: 13 Expert Study TipsAuthor Ellen McCammonPosted onFebruary 7, 2017CategoriesGRE VerbalTagsgre format,gre practice, gre vocab, preparing for the gre, question types, reading comprehension, study tipsFeeling vexed by the GRE Verbal section? Or just not sure how to maximize your score? You’ve come to the right place!In this total guide to acing GRE Verbal, we’ll give a comprehensive overview of everything you need to know to get a great score. We’ll start with a quick bird’s-eye-view of the section, and then go in-depth on each question type. After that we’ll go over how to prepare for the test—with a special section on addressing common weaknesses. Finally, we’ll suggest some strategies for success on test day and provide a couple of extra tips for those of you who are going for that perfect 170!The GRE Verbal Section: An OverviewThe GRE Verbal Reasoning sectiontests your high-level reading and language skills. You’ll be asked vocabulary questions about choosing the appropriate word(s) for a given sentence based on context, and reading comprehension questions that have to do with parsing the main ideas and interpreting the details of complex passages.Like the Quantitative section, the GRE Verbal Section is a 40-question test split into two 20-question subsections. It’s scored on a scale from 130-170, in one-point increments.The GRE is section-adaptive, which means your performance on the first 20-question subsection determines the difficulty of questions in the second 20-question subsection. If you want a score towards the higher end of the scale, you need to be able to access that more difficult second subsection.Each 20-question section will havethe following approximate question breakdown:About 10 questions on vocab,split between sentence equivalence and text completion questions.About 10 questions on reading comprehension, split between traditional multiple choice, multi-answer multiple choice (select all correct answers from a list), and select-in-passage questions.We’ll do a deep dive on each of these question types in the next section.Quick side note: we've created the world's leading online GRE prep program that adapts to you and your strengths and weaknesses. Not sure what to study? Confused by how to improve your score? PrepScholar guides you, step by step.I want to be clear - you don't NEED a prep program to get a great GRE score. But we believe PrepScholar is thebest GRE prep program available right now, especially if you find it hard to organize your study schedule and don't know what to study.Click here to learn how you can improve your GRE score by 7 points, guaranteed.So get your scuba gear ready!GRE Verbal Questions: All 5 Types ExplainedIn this section, we’ll explain each GRE Verbal question type, provide an example and explanation, and give tips on how to approach those questions.GRE Verbal Vocab QuestionsThere are two kinds of vocab questions: sentence equivalence and text completion.SENTENCE EQUIVALENCESentence equivalence questions give you a sentence with one blank, and you need to pick two words from a selection of six that could both complete the sentence and give the sentence the same general meaning.Example QuestionHere’s an example of a sentence equivalence question from the ETS website.Directions: “Select the two answer choices that, when used to complete the sentence, fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole and produce completed sentences that are alike in meaning.”Question: Although it does contain some pioneering ideas, one would hardly characterize the work as __________.orthodoxeccentricoriginaltriflingconventionalinnovativeExplanationThe key signal word here is “although,” which lets us know that the second half of the sentence is going to offer a counterpoint to the first half. So though the work has “pioneering ideas” [point], one would not characterize the work as pioneering overall [counterpoint]. We’re looking for synonyms of pioneering to complete the sentence, then.“Orthodox” and “conventional” are antonyms of pioneering—let’s eliminate those. “Eccentric” is tempting, but a work can be strange without being pioneering, so it’s not quite right. “Original”—that could definitely work. “Trifling” means frivolous or inconsequential, which isn’t right. That leaves “innovative,” which is definitely a synonym for “pioneering.” The only answers that really work, then, are “original” and “innovative.”GRE Verbal Tips for Sentence EquivalenceWhile a lot of the individual words might make seem like they make sense in the context of the sentence, the two words have to give the sentence a similar meaning.If you’re pretty sure of one word, that can help you narrow down your choices for the other word; you can eliminate any choices that would make the sentence mean something totally different.However, don’t assume that just because you’ve found two synonyms that you’ve got the right answer; the makers of the GRE often put in multiple synonym pairs to trip you up! In the question above, “orthodox” and “traditional” have similar meaning, but they aren’t the right choices because the sentence doesn’t really make sense with them.I know they’re cute, but don’t just pick the first twins you see!TEXT COMPLETIONText completion questions give you a sentence or short passage (up to six sentences) missing one to three words. You’ll need to select the word(s) that best complete the passage.For passages with one missing word, you’ll select the correct word from five choices. For passages with two or three missing words, each blank will have three possible answer choices. In all cases, you’ll select the word(s) you want to choose by clicking on them. For single-blank questions, this will just be from a list; for multiple-blank questions, you’ll have a table where each column represents your choices for a particular blank.Example QuestionHere’s an example of text completion from the ETS website so you can see what this looks like in action.Directions: “For each blank select one entry from the corresponding column of choices. Fill all blanks in the way that best completes the text.”Question: Vain and prone to violence, Caravaggio could not handle success: the more his (i)__________ as an artist increased, the more (ii)__________ his life became.Blank (i)Blank (ii)temperancetumultuousnotorietyprovidentialeminencedispassionateExplanationThe key phrase here is “Caravaggio could not handle success.” This indicates that the rest of the sentence is going to elaborate on how he handled success poorly. So the blank in the phrase “the more his <blank> as an artist increased” is going to be a synonym for “success.”Temperance is definitely wrong—it means “restraint” or “abstinence from alcohol.” That leaves “notoriety,” which means “fame,” but with a potentially negative implication (think “notorious”). It’s tempting, but “eminence”—fame with the implication of skill or success—is a better synonym for “success.”Since we know Caravaggio could not handle success, we are looking for a negative word to describe his life once he became successful for the second blank. “Tumultuous” (meaning “chaotic,” like a tumult) is the only choice that’s clearly negative. (“Providential” means “lucky”—think “providence,” like “divine providence”—and “dispassionate” means “detached.”) So, the correct answer is “eminence” and then “tumultuous.”GRE Verbal Tips for Text CompletionA really important thing for text completion is word valence. What do I mean by this? Word valence is whether a word has a positive or a negative tone overall. You can usually figure out whether a word should have a positive or a negative connotation from sentence context, even if you can’t exactly figure out the word is. For example, in the above question, in the first blank, “the more his _______ as an artist increased,” it’s pretty clear from context that this should be a positive word. This actually helps us pick between “notoriety” and “eminence” even though they have similar meanings—“notoriety” has a negative valence, while “eminence” has a positive one.If you aren’t familiar with a word in the list, try to think if you know any similar words.For blank (ii) above, you may not be familiar with “tumultuous,” but have you heard the word “tumult”? Or maybe you don’t know “providential,” but you know “providence” and you have a sense that it means protection or care. Any information you can leverage about words you do know can help you figure out the right choice when you aren’t totally sure what all the words mean.Word valence: you have two choices.GRE Verbal Reading Comprehension QuestionsThere are three kinds of reading comprehension questions: multiple choice, multiple-answer multiple choice, and select-in-passage. All reading comprehension example questions come from ETS and are based on the following example passage: (See passage and questions from ETS here).Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition, an approach that had been in hibernation in the United States during the 1960s, composer Philip Glass (born 1937) embraced the ethos of popular music in his compositions. Glass based two symphonies on music by rock musicians David Bowie and Brian Eno, but the symphonies’ sound is distinctively his. Popular elements do not appear out of place in Glass’s classical music, which from its early days has shared certain harmonies and rhythms with rock music. Yet this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music. His music is not a version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners; it is high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics.MULTIPLE CHOICEMultiple choice questions are pretty straightforward, at least in format.Example QuestionDirections: Select only one answer choice.Question: The passage addresses which of the following issues related to Glass’s use of popular elements in his classical compositions?Want to improve your GRE score by 7 points? We have the industry's leading GRE prep program. Built byworld-class instructors with 99th percentile GRE scores, the program learns your strengths and weaknesses through machine learning data science, then customizes your prep program to you so you get the most effective prep possible.Try our 5-day full access trial for free:Get a great GRE score. GuaranteedHow it is regarded by listeners who prefer rock to the classicsHow it has affected the commercial success of Glass’s musicWhether it has contributed to a revival of interest among other composers in using popular elements in their compositionsWhether it has had a detrimental effect on Glass’s reputation as a composer of classical musicWhether it has caused certain of Glass’s works to be derivative in qualityExplanationThis question wants to know what the passage says about “issues related to Glass’s use of popular elements in his classical compositions.” Let’s go through the answers to see if any are supported by the passage.Choice (A) says “how it [Glass’ use of popular elements] is regarded by listeners who prefer rock to the classics.” If you look back up at the passage, you can see that the passage doesn’t mention people who prefer rock music at all. Choice (A) can’t be correct; let’s move on. Choice (B) refers to Glass’ commercial success, but again, the passage doesn’t mention anything about Glass’ profits or popularity. Choice (C) discusses Glass’ effects on other composers. Other composers aren’t mentioned—just popular musicians Brian Eno and David Bowie.We are left with choices (D) and (E) as the only possible answers at this point. Choice (D) talks about Glass’ reputation as a composer. The passage doesn’t say anything explicit about his reputation; for all we know, everyone but the author hates Philip Glass. This leaves (E)— “whether [Glass’ use of popular elements] has caused certain of Glass’ works to be derivative in quality.” If you look in the passage, the author asserts about Glass’ symphonies based on works by Eno and Bowie that “the symphonies’ sound is distinctly his.” This does address whether or not the works are derivative by asserting that they are not. (E) is the correct answer.Tips for Multiple Choice Reading Comprehension Questions:Rely on evidence from the passage. This is the most important strategy for ALL reading comprehension questions. There might only be a few words in the passage that directly address the correct answer, as in the above question, where all we get on the issue of whether or not Glass’ works are derivative is the phrase that the “symphonies’ sound is distinctly his.” This is sparse—but it’s there, and it is responsive to whether or not his works are derivative. There will always be concrete evidence of some kind in the passage to support the correct answer. Don’t get tricked by answer choices that aren’t directly contradicted by the passage but that don’t actually have any evidence present—ETS loves to include choices like this.With that said, don’t try to absorb every detail of the passage on a first pass-through. We’ll discuss developing a strategy to address passages later in the article, but it’s far better to read passages for main ideas first and then look back at the passage for more details when you are trying to select the right answer.The sponge strategy of total absorption is actually not your best bet here.MULTI-ANSWER MULTIPLE CHOICEIn multiple-answer multiple choice GRE Verbal questions, you’ll be given three numbered choices and need to select all that apply.Example:Directions: Consider each of the three choices separately and select all that apply.Question: The passage suggests that Glass’s work displays which of the following qualities?A return to the use of popular music in classical compositionsAn attempt to elevate rock music to an artistic status more closely approximating that of classical musicA long-standing tendency to incorporate elements from two apparently disparate musical stylesExplanation:Since we need to pick each statement that applies, let’s consider each of them separately.First, does Glass’s work display “a return to the use of popular music in classical compositions”? If we look back at the passage, we can see that the very first phrase is “Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition” about Glass’s work. (A) is correct!Let’s move on to (B). Does Glass’s work display “an attempt to elevate rock music to an artistic status more closely approximating that of classical music”? You might think the answer is yes because Glass is an artistic composer who uses rock elements. But it’s critical that we actually look back at details in the passage. Then we’ll see that it says that “this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music.” If Glass doesn’t compose popular—i.e. rock—music, then he can’t be attempting to “elevate” rock music. He’s simply incorporating rock elements in classical music, which already has “artistic status.” So (B) isn’t correct.Moving on to (C), does Glass’s work display “a long-standing tendency to incorporate elements from two apparently disparate musical styles”? We know that Glass incorporates rock elements into his classical compositions. So he does “incorporate elements” of “disparate musical styles.” But is it a “long-standing tendency?” The passage says Glass “revive[d] the practice,” which had “been in hibernation.” This suggests that there was a history of combining musical styles. That could be described as a “long-standing tendency.” (C) is also correct. That leaves us with (A) and (C) as our answers.GRE Verbal Tips for Multiple-Answer Multiple-Choice QuestionsYou have seven possible answer choice combinationsfor these questions (A, B, C, A&B, A&C, B&C, A&B&C), but don’t be overwhelmed by this.Consider each statement individually and assess it on its own merits without considering any of the others. For other question styles, comparing answer choices is smart because there will be one best answer. For this kind of question, it’s much better to treat each statement as a mini-question of its own. Does the statement apply to the passage? Yes or no?For a statement to be correct,every part of that statement has to be correct. For example, in the above statement (C), we didn’t just have to determine if Glass combined disparate elements of two styles—we had to determine if there was a “long-standing tendency.” You have to consider all parts of each statement. Don’t ignore a single word!As in other reading comprehension questions, rely on what’s in the passage for evidence. If you have to make any logical leaps or inferences with no direct evidence from the text, it’s not the right answer.So does this mean that if I compose a rock opera they might include a passage about me in the GRE?SELECT-IN-PASSAGEIn select-in-passage questions for GRE Verbal, you will be directed toselect the sentence that best fulfills a particular criteria. Then you will literally click the sentence in the passage on your screen to select your answer.Example QuestionDirections/Question: Select the sentence that distinguishes two ways of integrating rock and classical music. [Note: in the actual GRE Verbal section, you will hover your cursor over the passage and click on the sentence you want].Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition, an approach that had been in hibernation in the United States during the 1960s, composer Philip Glass (born 1937) embraced the ethos of popular music in his compositions.Glass based two symphonies on music by rock musicians David Bowie and Brian Eno, but the symphonies’ sound is distinctively his.Popular elements do not appear out of place in Glass’s classical music, which from its early days has shared certain harmonies and rhythms with rock music.Yet this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music.His music is not a version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners; it is high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics.ExplanationThe key thing we are looking for here is a sentence with two ways to integrate rock and classical music. Let’s go through it sentence-by-sentence:The first sentence only talks about one way: “using elements of popular music in classical composition.”The second sentence continues to talk about this one way, just with a specific example.The third sentence continues to talk about one way—using popular elements in “Glass’s classical music.”The fourth sentence seems a little ambiguous at first—it mentions his use of popular elements has not made him a “composer of popular music,” which suggests a second option. But that doesn’t really delineate two ways of integrating rock and classical, just two kinds of composers—classical and popular.The last sentence, finally, presents two different ways of integrating rock and classical: a “version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners,” one way, is contrasted against Glass’s method of “high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics,” another way.Since the last sentence is the only one that really presents two ways to integrate rock and classical, it has to be the right choice.GRE Verbal Tips for Select-in-Passage QuestionsA key part of select-in-passage questions is choosing the best sentence. So if there are two sentences that both seem like they might kind of work, you need to assess which one answers the question in the most complete and direct way. Again, I can’t reiterate enough that using evidence from the passage is the essential reading comprehension strategy—you’ll know the best sentence because it will have the clearest evidence that it fulfills whatever criteria you need to select for.Similarly, when choosing a dog, choose the best dog.How to Study for GRE VerbalBefore you start preparing in earnest, there are two things you need to do: establish a baseline and set a goal score for the GRE Verbal Reasoning section.To establish a baseline, take a complete, scored Verbal section(that would be two subsections or 40 questions). I advise taking an entirePowerPrep test to set your baseline for the entire test anyways—it forms an essential part of any GRE study plan. But since we’re discussing Verbal right now, I’ll focus on Verbal. The Verbal score you get at the very beginning of your prep process is your baseline. Once you’ve established this baseline, you need to figure out a goal score.Your goal score for a given section just needs to be a high enough score to not be a barrier to admission. How do you figure this out? Look up the average GRE Verbal scores for all of the programs that you’re interested in. Take the highest number, add 1-2 points for safety, and that’s your goal score. You cansee more on setting a goal score here, including advice on what to do if your programs don’t give much score information.So once you’ve set a goal score, you can get a decent idea of how long you’ll need to study to bring your baseline up to your goal score. We have the following estimates for the hours it will take to improve a certain point amount:5 points = 40 hours10 points = 80 hours20 points = 160 hours30 points = 240 hoursSo if your baseline is 155, and you need to get up to 160, expect to spend about 40 hours studying.Once you’ve set a goal score, there are two overall prongs of attack you’ll need to consider when you prepare for the GRE Verbal section: content/skills (the underlying foundational material the GRE is testing) and strategy (how you actually approach questions and the overall test. We discuss how best to approach the two prongs below.No, I said two prongs, not two prawns!GRE Verbal Content and Skills PracticeThere are a few key content and skills areas to work on for GRE Verbal. We’ll detail each—and how to work on it—below.LEARNING GRE VOCABULARYA big part of GRE success is learning vocabulary. As you might imagine, it’s very hard to answer sentence equivalence and text completion questions if you aren’t familiar with any of the answers. Even beyond that, a strong vocabulary makes it much easier to parse the difficult passages you’ll be faced with for reading comprehension.Want to improve your GRE score by 7+ points?Check out our best-in-class online GRE prep program. Weguarantee your money backif you don't improve your GRE score by 7 points or more.PrepScholar GRE is entirely online, and it customizes your prep program to your strengths and weaknesses. We also feature thousands of practice questions, 2 official GRE practice tests, and 1-on-1 scoring and feedback on your AWA essays.Check out our 5-day free trial now:Get 7 More Points On Your GRE, GuaranteedThere are two parts to learning vocab: simple memorization and vocab-in-context. Both are critical parts of the vocabulary process.For simple memorization, your best bet is the friendly flashcard. We have our own flashcard PDF, as well as reviews of other flashcard sets you might consider. When you are drilling those cards, I recommendusing the waterfall method to ensure you’re really memorizing every word. If you want to be able to review your flashcards online, you can use Quizlet, although you can’t do the waterfall method with their interface so I recommend also making hard copies.You might think that after memorizing 1000 vocab flash cards that you’re all set. But that’s only part of the equation. You also need to make sure that you actually understand the words in context—so you know how to use them and how to understand them being used by others. This will also help you actually remember the words and what they mean.There are a couple things you can do to work on your in-context vocabulary. First, you can try writing out sentences with your vocab words to make sure you really know how they are used in context. You can also read high-level publications and make note of how the words you learned are used there. When you find yourself using the words in conversation or in writing fairly naturally, you know that you’ve really learned them.“Yes, I think Thor is indubitably the best Avenger!”READING COMPREHENSION FOR COMPLEX GRE PASSAGESAs you might imagine, the best way to improve your reading comprehension is to read a lot. But don’t just go for quantity—you should read things that are topically similar to what you’ll be faced with on the GRE. Try to read a diverse array of articles from publications with a high reading level like the Atlantic, the New York Times, the Economist, Nature, and so on. Because there are often science passages on the GRE, you can even try reading abstracts from scientific studies on PubMed. Can you figure out the main hypothesis and results of the study from the abstract, even if it’s in an area you aren’t familiar with?As you read articles, make sure you really understand what’s being said. What’s the main idea? What evidence does the author advance to support their position? Do they present any counterpoints? If you can understand the argumentative and rhetorical structure of complex articles, you’ll be all set for GRE Verbal Reasoning.IDENTIFYING SIGNAL WORDSSignal words and phrases tell youimportant contextual informationabout the sentence or passage—information that will help you select the correct answer. They are particularly critical elements for selecting the correct words in vocab questions, but can also help you quickly parse the meaning of complex passages.Signal words are usually transitions and indicate whether some previously presented piece of information is going to be supported, contradicted, clarified, and so on.Here are a few common groups of GRE signal words, what they signal, and a brief, simple example sentence:However/although – offering a caveat or mitigationAlthough the author was social by nature, he did not particularly enjoy book tours.Indeed/furthermore – offering further support or emphasisThe author was social by nature; indeed, he loved meeting hundreds of new people on book tours.By contrast/rather/instead – offering a different perspective, counterpoint, or purposeThe author was not social by nature; rather, he was forced into sociability by the necessities of book tours and signing.To practice your understanding of signal words, try to notice every time you think you see a signal word in what you are reading. Consider what the signal word is indicating.You might even keep a running list with the sentence, the signal word, and what it indicates in that sentence. Over time, you’ll develop your own base of signal word knowledge.This signal’s a pretty clear one, though.Study Tips for GRE Verbal Practice Questions and SectionsHere are my recommendations for using actual practice tests and questions to prepare for the GRE Verbal section.USE OFFICIAL MATERIAL WHEN POSSIBLEThe best material for Verbal practice questions will always beofficial ETS material. Since they make the test, their material is the closest to the real GRE experience. You can get complete official practice tests from the PowerPrep software, plus additional practice questions from their paper tests and online. (Check out our guide to the best Verbal resources out there.) You can also consider buying a prep book.TARGET YOUR WEAKNESSESWhen you complete practice GRE Verbal questions, tests, and sections, pay close attention to what you get wrong. The patterns of what you answer incorrectly will reveal anycontent or strategy weaknesses that you need to target to improve. Are you always missing sentence equivalence? Do science-themed passages confuse you? You’ll know to work on those things.PRACTICE PACING AND TEST STRATEGYIt’s critical that you practice staying on pace so that you can answer all the questions in the time allotted. To that end, be sure to take timed practice sections and monitor any areas where you’re losing too much time. In general, try not to spend too much time on vocabulary, since reading comprehension questions will naturally take longer due to the reading time involved.You also need to practice strategies for selecting the correct answer like working on your process of elimination skills.GRE pacing isn’t as fun as motorcycle race pacing, but it’s a similar concept.DEVELOP A CONSISTENT STRATEGY FOR PASSAGESIt’s critical that you come up with a strategy for approaching passages on the GRE that works for you. Having a consistent approach that you hone during prep will help you with time management during Verbal and increase your comfort level when faced with the GRE’s dense, complex passages.There are two solid strategies for approaching GRE passages and reading comprehension questions:Skim passage first: In this strategy, you’ll quickly skim the passage before reading the question. Then once you’ve read the question, you’ll look back in the passage for the details and evidence that you need to answer the question.Read question first: For this approach, you’ll read the question first, then read through the passage looking for the evidence that will tell you the right answer.Both of these strategies can work well for students and help them manage their time; making them work for you is mostly a matter of personal preference.Unfortunately, there’s also a third approach that, while commonly used, is not a good strategy. In this approach, you’ll closely read the passage first, trying to absorb every detail. Then you’ll read the question, and find that you still have to go back into the passage to find the answer. As you might imagine, this is an inefficient strategy that wastes a lot of time. Most of the details in the passage aren’t going to be important for an individual question, so getting too bogged down in trying to understand and remember them is totally unnecessary. If you’re going to read the passage first, just quickly skim it for the main points.My passage strategy is that I only read next to the beach.4 Common GRE Verbal Problems and How to Fix ThemIt’s critical to address your own particular weaknesses on the Verbal section, but there are a few weak points that are common to a lot of students. We’ve listed them below and suggested some ways to address them if they are issues that you have.Forgetting The Vocabulary You LearnedIf you find yourself forgetting large swathes of the vocab you drilled, it means you probably didn’t learn it in a very effective way (sorry). Did you complete both components of the vocabulary process mentioned above? Or did you just memorize without applying? Make sure that you have been both drilling flashcards effectively and learning vocabulary in context. See above for my recommendations on the best way to really learn and retain vocabulary.Running Out of TimeIf you are struggling to finish Verbal sections on time, the primary thing you need to do is figure out where you’re losing time. Are you primarily losing time on vocab, or reading comprehension? For vocab, it’s typically a waste of time to spend a long while agonizing over those questions—you typically either know the words, or you don’t. Read the questions very carefully and answer them to the best of your ability, but don’t spend 30 seconds staring blankly at the answers. If you find yourself doing this, try completing passage questions first, and then come back to the vocab.If, by contrast, you’re flying through the vocab questions but running out of time because you’re spending too much time on passages, yourapproach to passages may not be very effective. Are you spending too much time on your initial read-through? Are you overthinking what counts as “evidence” and overanalyzing every little word? Re-read our advice on passage strategy above for some tips on adjusting your approach.Of course, you could feel rushed because of a combination of vocab and reading comprehension issues, in which case, fiddle around with changing your passage strategy and answering vocab questions at a faster pace or after reading comprehension to try to figure out what works best for you.I, too, wish I had a rainbow hourglass to keep track of time for me at all moments.Being Torn Between Two AnswersThere is always a best answer choice on the GRE (except for multi-answer multiple choice, but then there’s no need to be torn!) If you frequently find that you can narrow your choices down to two, but then you can’t choose the final one, a couple things could be happening. If this is happening primarily on vocab questions, you may just not know the vocab well enough. Also be sure to consider word valence—based on context, does a positive or negative word belong in the blank? That can help a lot in differentiating answers.If this is primarily happening on reading comprehension, you need to hone your understanding ofidentifying evidence in passages.Only one answer will ever be correct based on clear evidence in the passage. This means you need to practice parsing the complex passages for the small details that point to the correct answer.Feeling Intimidated by GRE PassagesIf you find yourself doing well during low-pressure prep sessions but getting flustered by the long, complex passages during timed practice tests, work on staying calm. If all the practice test passages seem crazy-difficult , it’s possible that the material you’ve been reading isn’t difficult enough, or that you aren’t reading a big enough variety of sources. But it’s also possible that you’re just suffering from some test anxiety. In this case, maintain positive self-talk, take deep breaths, and know that you can do it.If you feel stressed, just think about adorable kittens.Taking the Test: 4 GRE Verbal Tips for SuccessWhen you actually take the test, here are some strategies to help you ace the Verbal section!Use Mark & Return LiberallyFriends, you get the same amount of points for easy questions as hard questions. What does this mean for your strategy? Do questions that you find easy first! If you look at a question or a passage and you think “ew, gross,” or you find yourself staring at it in blank confusion for more than a few seconds, mark that question and come back to it!Odds are that it will seem easier when you come back to it, and even if it doesn’t, at least you didn’t waste valuable time when you could have been getting easy (or at least easier) points.Answer Every QuestionThere’s no guessing penalty on the GRE, so it’s to your advantage to answer every question. Keep an eye on the time and when you have a few minutes left, quickly skim remaining questions and pick answers.When You Do Guess, Guess SmartTo the extent that you can avoid guessing randomly, you should. This means you should hone all of your educated guessing and process-of-elimination skills, then deploy them with a vengeance on the test! Every time you can eliminate a wrong answer, your chance of guessing the right one goes up.Keep Calm and Do What You PracticedDon’t get psyched out when you’re faced with the actual test. Trust that you’ve prepared all you can, and calmly implement all of your passage and question-answering strategies. Even if you feel like some questions are throwing you for a loop, maintain positive self-talk, take some deep breaths, and move on to another question. You can do it!Again, if you need to calm down, I recommend thinking about soft, adorable animals.2 Bonus Tips for a Perfect Score on GRE VerbalIf you’re really going for that 170 on Verbal, here are a couple additional tips to help you get there!Be Aware of What You Can Afford to Get WrongThe answer: not much. While a 170 on Quant usually requires a truly perfect raw score, though, you can usually get one question wrongand still get a 170 on Verbal. This leaves you with a very, very tiny margin for error.Laser in on Your WeaknessesIt’s always good to focus on your weaknesses when you’re preparing for a test, but if you want a 170, you need to pinpoint your weak points as exactly as possible. It’s not enough to know that you sometimes get tripped up by Sentence Equivalence—which Sentence Equivalence questions? Are you picking things that aren’t quite synonyms? Are you tripped up by multiple pairs of synonyms? To really figure out exact, specific weakness, you’ll probably need to do an enormous amount of practice problems so you can notice patterns in what you’re missing that are as specific as possible. Then, you can target those super-specific weaknesses and not be thrown on test day.I don’t advise including actual lasers in this process.Review: GRE Verbal Questions, Practice, and TipsHere’s what we reviewed in our total guide to GRE Verbal domination.There are five types of GRE Verbal questions:Vocab Questions:Sentence equivalence (choose two words that could both complete a sentence and give it a similar meaning)Text completion (fill in the blanks with the best word choices)Reading Comprehension Questions:Multiple-choice (choose the right answer)Multi-answer multiple choice (choose all correct statements)Select-in-passage (choose the right sentence in the passage)In preparing for GRE Verbal, your first step has to be establishing a baseline and a goal score. Then take the following steps.Review Content:Build your vocabularyGet comfortable reading complex materialLearn to identify signal wordsPractice:Use the best (official) materialTarget your weaknessesPractice pacing and strategy, like process-of-eliminationDevelop a strategy for passagesAddress Weaknesses:If you’re forgetting the vocab you learned, you probably aren’t drilling it very effectively.If you’re running out of time, you may be either spending too much time deliberating on vocab questions or your passage strategy isn’t very effective.Being torn between two answers is a sign that you need to further hone your vocabulary knowledge or your ability to pick out evidence in passages.If you feel intimidated by passages, it could be a sign either that you aren’t practicing difficult enough reading material or that you just have some test anxiety.Test-Day Success Strategies:Take advantage of mark & return to do the easier questions first and save the hardest ones for last!Answer every question—it can only help you.When you do guess, eliminate as many answers as you confidently can first.Keep calm and trust in the preparation you did!Extra Tips for a 170:Be aware of what you can get wrong and still get a 170. Usually, you can get one question incorrect and still receive that top score.When you’re prepping, laser-in on your weaknesses as specifically as possible.The bottom line is that if you follow good prep practices as outlined in this article, you can ace GRE Verbal!







First of all, I’m guessing by a high score you mean 330 - 340. Do not at all get afraid by all the propaganda that it is something extremely tough to achieve. It is not.I am not someone extraordinary. I failed countless, meaningless exams in my life. I have never been a topper or even close to that. So trust me, when I say, it is an extremely achievable target.Like any successful recipe, this also begins with some ingredients:Magoosh GRE Material (Verbal and Quants)Manhattan 5 lb. bookManhattan Mock Test Series (A set of 6 mock tests)Magoosh Flashcards (Available for free)Official ETS MaterialConfidence that you can do itGive yourself 2 - 3 months for preparation. Prepare a timeline.First things first, complete the Magoosh GRE Material videos. Both Verbal and Quants. They will take you quite some time. But they will be more than helpful in jogging old memories and clearing out the rust on those 10th standard mathematics that are already there but have been dormant being unused.Understand more importantly the process they are following to solve. Mathematics will follow straightforward logic, whereas Verbal might seem a little illogical at first, but really it is not. For Verbal it is VERY important to know the EXACT meaning of the words (Where constant practice from Magoosh Flashcards will help you) and also the structure and overall meaning of the sentence provided. Once you start getting the hang of it, you will start to understand the meaning and tone of the sentence, both in Reading Comprehension passages and Text Completions.Next, you MUST complete the ETS Official Guides, all 3 of them. There will be 2 mock tests provided in the book. Make sure you complete them and try to bring a score of +/- 2 from your target score. For example, for me the target score was 330, so I targeted for 328 - 332 in the ETS mocks.Next, the Manhattan 5 lb. book will be immensely helpful. Practice as much as you can each day. Doing BOTH Quants and Verbal. Complete the book by doing each and every problem and going through the answers that you did wrong or had confusion in. Also, make timelines (I did every alternate day) and give the 6 mocks one by one from Manhattan during this period. These mocks are a lot harder than actual GRE, so if you are scoring 318 - 322, expect a high score in GRE.Last but not the least, read, understand and memorize the words from Magoosh Flashcards. They will come extremely handy when you’re doing RC or TC.In the end, believe in yourself. Practice a lot and be confident of your ability. Most importantly, drink a lot of fluids! (Not just before the exam though - your washroom time is counted as the exam time except for breaks)Have a blast with the exam! All the best!







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is used by schools in most English speaking countries for admission into the Graduate program. It assesses the verbal, quantitative and writing skills of the student.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution. So here are some tips to help you.1. Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most. Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2. Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser. Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3. Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous. When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4. Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay.5. Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.A relevant option would be to take the best online coaching class which provides a complete package right from basics to admissions in B-schools wherein you can avoid hassle of travelling as well.Start by taking a Free GRE online courseSource: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE







Grishma Jena's answer to What is the easiest way to score 310 marks on the GRE within the duration of just 20/25 days and with minimal efforts?







GRE is a very important exam to continue your master’s education, thus each one needs to dedicate ample of time, minimum of 3 months, to start preparing for the exam. Preparation is a key ingredient in order to fulfill your dream of being admitted in USA Colleges/universities.Here is a schedule guide in Mastering Words for you:If I may suggest, identifying the SMART objective of your GRE preparation would be pretty useful. (You can actually create your own timeline for this)S - Specific: Your end-goal should be stated, for example: Be confident when taking the GRE exam because I have prepared very well, studied every topic and even had practice tests to enhance more my skills. It should include the “W” questions: Who? What? Where? When? Which? and Why?M - Measurable: A proper schedule should be created and maintained. Establish a concrete number - how many number of words would you like to master? How many weeks would you like to spend for each GRE section? How will I determine if I have accomplished it?A - Achievable: A schedule with defined time and activity is something needed for preparation. Make sure that the words you wanted to master and the time you want to prepare would be achievable. Also, practice as many mock test as possible to avoid cram during exam.R - Realistic: Provide each list of words a realistic time to finish. Let’s say a list of 10 words can be mastered in 3 days or maybe a week. That includes reviewing it through games/the help of vocab app. I suggest you use Preped Vocab - for free. (But that depends on you)T - Time-based: Schedule, schedule, schedule. :)For more help, we have asked a couple of GRE tutors and authors with the following questions. You may click on the following to see the video interview and hear them out.What Is The Best Approach In Preparing For The GRE?How To Avoid Cram While Preparing For GRE ExamHow To Get Used To Stress and Time Pressure? (Quantitative Section)Helpful Tips For Anyone Interested In Taking The GREAre Practice Tests Harder Than The Actual Test For GMAT or GRE?Bonus: The Best Strategies for Recall (Vocabulary Section)







Start early.You'll do yourself a world of favour. First of all, start with giving a mock test. CATKing Free Mock is the best one to start off with.It boosts up your confidence as a beginner and it's just the ideal GRE syllabus.Identify your weaknesses and strengths. GRE has two parts - Verbal and Quantitative. Most people find DI - part of quant- to be a little tough. It requires a lot of practice to get used to. For the Verbal part, a lot depends on how habituated you are to reading. If you've been reading newspaper articles and books since you were young, a little more effort would see you through. For others, instead of trying to memorise words, try to understand the word root method.That's why I emphasize a lot on Norman Lewis - Word Power Made Easy because it helps you build this skill.rahul catking norman lewisWhen trying to understand the meaning of a new word, follow up with its synonyms as well. This helps you grow your vocabulary really fast. Synonyms and antonyms are quite useful in the actual exam. The quant asked in the exam has really basic concepts. You should learn to read between the lines and try to grasp the generic form of it. Go back to your 10th grade books. They contain quite a lot of useful information. Keep giving mocks on a regular basis to acclimatise yourself to the exam giving environment. 4-5 days before the final exam, give PowerPrep I. This would be quite close to the real GRE. Devise a strategy for the final exam. You should decide when to take a break if need be. On exam day, be prepared with all your documents needed for the exam. Make sure you double check before you leave. Be happy and in a positive frame of mind. It really helps.Here are a few of my Verbal Ability Lectures for GRE prep which would help you boost your scores.CAT Verbal ability lectures (GRE /GMAT/ BankPO ) - YouTubeAll the best!







I took the GRE on August 10, and I got a very good score (relatively speaking). I can confidently say I was able to do this because of my persistent study routine, which consisted of the following:Doing a bunch of practice GRE problems from test prep books. I recommend doing problems that are harder than the actual problems. You can look online, but Manhattan Prep books provide harder GRE questions than the actual test. The book I used was 5lb Book of GRE Practice Problems[1]. This was a huge chunk of my studying and helped me recognize which topics I needed most help with. Those topics I did more problems for, while sections where I rarely gave wrong answers I didn't study as much.Utilizing free GRE vocab/study tip apps. I used Ready 4 GRE and Magoosh’s several GRE vocab apps (available on iOS and Android). Having these apps on your phone means you literally have no excuse to not study in your downtime: going to the bathroom, waiting for the train, in the waiting room, etc.Starting early, way before test day. Half the battle is recognizing patterns in test questions, and the only way to do that is to do problems every day. I did twenty a day (that equates to about a section's worth of questions). When you register for the test, ETS offers two free practice tests meant to accurately represent the difficulty of the GRE. Do those, too, but not until the GRE is a few weeks away so you can test your readiness.Not stressing out too much. Your biggest weakness is yourself. Take breaks, hang out with friends and family, to get your mind off test material.Good luck!Footnotes[1] 5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems (Manhattan Prep GRE Strategy Guides): Manhattan Prep: 9781941234518: Amazon.com: Books







Well the GRE is a unique exam in the sense that you can't really “prepare” for it. There is no fixed pattern or repeated questions. What the GRE really tests is what you have learnt right from elementary school.For the verbal section, I'd suggest start reading magazines like the Scientific American or the Economist every day for a 30 min. Do this for atleast 2–3 months before your exam. I didn't rote learn any words. What I remembered was in what context the word was used. Trust me, this is a better way than memorizing words from apps and flashcards.For Quants, I used the Manhattan strategy guides. Go through them once and solve the corresponding sections in the Manhattan 5LB book. The 5LB book is good for verbal too.Finally, don't forget to solve atleast 5 mock tests because they'll build up your endurance. Trust me the GRE is really tiring.







1.ETS official guide to GRE revised General Test and Official GRE Practice QuestionsThe must-have books for any test-taker. No other publisher beats the questions coming from the people who make the test. The official guide should be your primary reference for understanding the types of questions in different sections.2. Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesThese books are awesome. First of all, the majority of them (6 out of 8) are devoted to math: Algebra, fractions, geometry, number properties, word problems and quantitative comparisons. The practice questions in Math are divided into three sections easy, medium and hard. There are also two books devoted to the verbal section: Reading comprehension and Text completion & sentence equivalences. The books dealing with verbal section consists of more challenging questions than what actually appears in the test. Keep in mind that these books aren't going to teach you math or English. Their sole purpose is to remind you about enough of the tricks required to do well on the GRE test. Another advantage of these books are that each of them comes with 6 online tests which I would definitely recommend taking. The interface is very similar to that of the actual test, and so is the difficulty.3.Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problemsBuy this book if you want to practice more challenging problems in Quant section.4.(Optional)Manhattan Prep LSAT Reading ComprehensionI had trouble with RC section from the beginning of my preparation. Even though this book is for a different exam, it actually teaches you how to approach a passage. This one helped me tremendously in improving my skills for tackling a passage. I would recommend this book only if you are facing serious trouble in the Reading comprehension section.For complete review of all the GRE books available in the market, check this linkNew GRE Book Reviews - Magoosh GRE BlogAll the best!







Thanks for the A2A!There are a lot of answers to this question and I can see most of them have covered the more popular books on the market. It makes little sense then to discuss books, instead let’s talk about the other resources available to you.GRE Diagnostic Tests: If you’re just starting your preparation, a good (free!) resource you should be taking advantage of is a diagnostic test. This will tell you where you stand currently and which areas require more focus. This is important because it’ll help you streamline your preparation and ensure you spend time only where time is needed.GRE apps: Another great resource I think should be mentioned are GRE apps. Considering how much time we’re likely to spend on our phones on a regular basis, this seems like a terrific option. Accessible anytime, anywhere. You could start with the GRE Test Prep app by Galvanize. It comes with hundreds of GRE questions, excellent explanations to answers as well as a system to track your readiness/progress. And it’s completely free. If you’re looking to hone your verbal skills in particular, there are apps for that as well. Ultimate Vocabulary Prep and GRE Flashcards are some of the more popular apps for the same.GRE forums: For invaluable information from your peers and experts all over the globe, a forum is an absolute no-brainer. You can post questions on anything GRE-related and hope to receive answers. These forums are curated to cater specifically to a GRE-curious crowd so you can be sure to find something of value whenever you need it. Some of the more popular forums include GRE Prepclub, thegradcafe, urch etc.GRE Videos: Make the most of all of the free videos available on YouTube that offer explanations and tips for topics ranging from Permutations & Combinations to Analytical Writing Analysis. Looking for ‘hacks’ on acing the GRE? There are videos for those as well.As you can see, aside from books, there are plenty of other resources you can and should rely on to give yourself the best possible chance at a high score.I hope this was helpful to you!Good luck!







GRE Preparation Books for General (Verbal & Quant)ETS’s Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test 2nd Edition: This book should be referred to by every student who is preparing for the GRE exam. Test takers recommend that aspirants should not even miss out on a single page while studying from this book. Published by those who have created the test, this book contains four, solved tests. Two of these tests are available on the CD-ROM. This GRE preparation book features extensive list of problems on Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning.Barron’s New GRE 19th Edition: This is also a well-written book for GRE preparation. It contains two full-length study models and one diagnostic test. The full length study models are designed on the actual structure as seen in the GRE exam. This book has included the revised study content which was developed by the test makers. The book authors have also provided insight into some important chapters as well as test overview for students to better understand how to attempt the test.Kaplan New GRE Premier: This is a comprehensive book to study for Verbal and Quantitative Reasoning. This book covers a wide range of practice problems, test taking tactics and strategies.Princeton Review: Cracking the New GRE as the book title suggests, this book aims at acquainting students with the revised GRE syllabus and includes detailed answers for all questions.Gruber’s Complete GRE Guide: This book has ample problems on Quant but only a few on Verbal Reasoning.Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy Guides: This is another must-have GRE preparation book for all test takers. The book contains 8, well explained, strategy guides for the test attempt.GRE Preparation Books for QuantMcGraw-Hill’s Conquering the New GRE Math: This book is highly recommended for beginners who can start with the basics of GRE maths problems.Nova’s Math Bible: This book is best to practice some tough, challenging math problems.1,014 GRE Practice Questions: This book contains some easy problems to solve.Barron’s GRE Math Workbook: This book is ideal to practice Quant problems.Kaplan’s New GRE Math Workbook: This book proves to be ideal book to start with basic math problems for GRE. However, you should not rely too much on this one when studying problems of an advanced level.Princeton’s Math Workout for the New GRE: Out of all reference books for GRE, this offers the most extensive problem solving for Quant.GRE Preparation Books for VerbalKaplan’s New GRE Verbal Workbook: This is the best book for Verbal problems. This book surely scores a point over Barron’s book, in terms of how vocabulary is applied to different question types. It provides an additional set of practice problems with different difficulty levels.Barron’s GRE Verbal Workbook: This book contains an exhaustive list of words at the backside. The author also sheds light on reading and comprehension strategies.Princeton’s Verbal Workout for the New GRE: This book provides insight into some proven strategies but contains basic practice questions.There are many resources available to help you prepare for this test. Considering that the GRE exam can impact your life’s decisions, it makes sense to choose a test prep book from people who actually put the test together. A high GRE score is critical to set yourself on your way to gaining admission to the school of your choice.There is no single perfect way to prepare for such an exam. There is also no one perfect preparation course or book. Everyone has a different way of learning and retaining information. So make the right choices of material and courses depending on your goals early on, and you will be fine!







To start, be sure to get ETS's Official Guide for GRE. For extra practice questions, ETS (the test maker) has a quant-only book and a verbal-only book, each with 200 questions. You'll also need a resource with some sort of instruction. The one that's best for you will be the one that best suits your learning style. We have a free GRE video course you might want to try. Finally,it's a good idea to have some kind of Study Plan. We have a free one here if you're interested - http://www.greenlighttestprep.co...Cheers,Brent







I will suggest you to get the following books.Manhattan Prep 5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems30 Days to More Powerful VocabularyGRE Prep by MagooshAll the best.







WHAT IS GRE?The Graduate Record Examination, or GRE, is an important step in the graduate school or business school application process. The GRE is a multiple-choice, computer-based, standardized exam that is often required for admission to graduate programs and graduate business programs (MBA) globally.The GRE is developed and administered by testmaker ETS to provide graduate and business schools with common measures for comparing applicants’ qualifications and preparedness for graduate-level academic work. Graduate school and business school admissions committees look at your GRE score, along with your academic record and supporting materials, to assess your readiness for the rigors of graduate academic study.Your aspirations for higher studies abroad and achieving your goals is really appreciable. You did the right thing by writing GRE exam. For pursuing MS abroad especially USA, you need to appear for GRE which you have done. However, there is no need to worry. We will guide you as to what you need to do next inorder to pursue your MS degree course abroad.Admission in the universities abroad are mainly done on the basis of scores of two exams- GRE and TOEFL. SO you need to write the TOEFL exam which comprises questions from English. Having a good score in GRE and TOEFL will definitely help you in getting admission in the top universities of the world. After getting the scores of GRE and TOEFL, you need to choose 4-5 universities in each country where you want to pursue your MS course and apply in them online and it should be as per your GRE and TOEFL scores. Merely going for the best university with less scores will definitely result in a waste of time. You need to apply with a strong statement of purpose which will depict your interest in pursuing the course in the concerned university. This is an important aspect of application as most of the universities check this statement of purpose seriously.After getting confirmation of your selection,you need to select one university where you want to join. Then you need to apply for student VISA for pursuing your MS degree course. You need to approach the Visa Interview with all the necessary documents like call letters,score sheets, academic certificates,etc.







Short answer: Want to pursue your Master’s abroad or specifically in the US? The GRE exam will help you do this. GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination.Long answer: It is a standardized test that is generally required by universities in the US and certain other universities across the globe. What is a standardized test, you ask? A standardized test is any test which requires all test-takers to a) answer the same questions or questions from a common bank of questions in the same manner and b) that is scored or evaluated in the same manner. This ensures that all test-takers, objectively, have an equal shot at success and also allows for the comparison of the relative performance of an individual.Now let’s cover the rest of the basics. The GRE exam can be divided broadly into two categories:The Quantitative Reasoning SectionThe Verbal Reasoning Section - Both assessed on a scale of 130-170.There is a third, Analytical Writing Section that (as the name suggests) aims to measure your ability to construct and articulate complex ideas and arguments and support them. This section is of particular importance to PhD aspirants.The test can be taken throughout the year AND the scores you receive are valid for FIVE years after you take the exam. This is good news for those who aren’t sure when they want to start studying or those whose original plans get derailed.If and when you decide to take the GRE exam, you’re going to want to score as high as you can, right? The good news is, it’s not as hard as you might think.Good luck to you!







What is GRE?The Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) is a 3 and half hours standardized test that is an admissions requirement for most graduate schools in the United States. The GRE is owned and administered by Educational Testing Service (ETS). The test was established in 1936 by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.What is the Skills Tested in GRE?Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)Quantitative ReasoningVerbal ReasoningGRE Scoring?GRE is evaluated out of a score of 340. That’s, 170 for Quantitative Reasoning and 170 for Verbal Reasoning. The minimum score that one can get is 260 out of 340. AWA is evaluated out of a scale of 0 to 6 with increment of 0.5 (That means that a student for example can get 4.5 out of a scale of 6).NOTE: GRE SCORES ARE VALID FOR 5 YEARS.WHO ACCEPTS GRE?Business schools worldwide accept GRE scores for their MBA, specialized master's and other doctoral business programs, including many top-ranked programs.Law schools, including top-ranked schools, are now accepting GREList of important steps after the GRE exam:1. Appear for TOEFL or IELTS:TOEFL / IELTS is an important criterion for withholding your admission process. Basically, TOEFL OR IELTS are tests of your English skills. Their role comes into play at the time of Visa and during your Teaching Assistant-ship (TA). But it is always better that you are done with all the exams before applying to the universities.Ideal Time: September-October2. Decide Course and University:This is probably the most important and the most hectic time you will go through. You should choose a course purely based on your interest. Usually, students opt for a course based on their undergrad stream, although you can apply to any other different course. The only important part is that you should be able to justify to yourself why you want a course different from your undergrad stream, perhaps in your SOP.Work should begin on deiding a course and a university around September third week, earlier the better.The next step after GRE is to arrange documents. This is, as usual, tedious and boring. You have to run here and there, from the office on the first floor to the HOD on the 4th floor, each will keep dumping the work on the other. It isn’t so easy to obtain transcripts, LORs, attested mark sheets and Bank Statements. As said before, earlier you engage in this work lesser will be the problems.Below is a brief explanation on how and when you should arrange these documents:3. Letters of Recommendation:As soon as the final year begins (7th semester), start talking to the respective professors who will give you a recommendation. Honestly, it isn’t that simple to get a recommendation unless you have an excellent rapport with the teacher. It is a long process as you have to make a lot of rough drafts and eventually ready the final document.It is better that work should begin on this the very first day and the final draft should be ready by October last week to avoid last minute hassles.NOTE: There is no need to make a hard-copy for the LOR as all the universities accept it online unless the specific university asks for one.4. Transcripts:A transcript is an official document which comprises all your marks in detail (Semester-wise, subject-wise breakups, term work & viva marks) in a single sheet and is issued by your college. You have to make frequent visits to your college office for getting the sample transcript, entering the complete details of all the subjects starting from semester 1 till the current semester, approving it, getting it stamped and then sealing it.Number of copies required are around 15.5. Bank StatementFrankly speaking, arranging this document isn’t very difficult. Firstly, you need to know how much are you willing to, or in other words, how much can you spend for the next two years in USA (roughly around USD 55,000). Talk to your bank manager and get attested copies of the bank statement which is a proof of your financial solvency.So, once your finances are in place and you've had multiple meetings with your bank manager and decided the amount with or without loan, final papers should be ready by November first week but it is advisable that you start approaching the bank early in October.Number of copies required are generally 15.6. AffidavitAn affidavit is similar to the bank statement, just that it is an official document issued by the Government and it states who will be financing your education. You can make an affidavit by simply going to the court and telling the lawyer the exact details to fill in.Preparing this document doesn't take more than a day once you know who is ready to sponsor you and the exact amount. Tentative time is around November first week.Number of copies required are generally 15.Important: Make sure that the bank statement and affidavit amounts are the same.7. Statement Of PurposeThe heart of your application process. This is the only document which is supposedly compulsory. Start making your SOP around October first week as you have to make a lot of rough drafts for a week or 10 days. Get a few opinions from your seniors (to see whether you have written all the data properly) and an English expert (for the language and the grammar).Suggestion: Although you may have secured a good GRE score, try to keep the language simple and make sure you focus more on the content rather than flaunting your knowledge of GRE words.Note: Hard-copies aren’t required by the universities. They have around 500 Kb size to upload the soft-copy, which is quite enough.8. ResumeIt is a document highlighting your achievements. It usually consists of your academic achievements, GRE and TOEFL scores, Co-curricular and extracurricular activities, explanation of your academic projects and personal details.A good time to engage in making a Resume would be mid October.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for IELTS And GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.Vijay,Alumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT







GRE stands for "Graduate Record Examination". It's a standardized test that is required for admission at most graduate schools in the US. It is divided in three parts: Verbal, Quantitative and Analytical writing. The verbal section tests reading comprehension and vocabulary. Questions are of the type "what two sentences have the same meaning ?" or "fill in the blank with the correct word to complete the sentence". Scores for this section range from 130 to 170. Normally this test is computer-based and the choice of questions and their order will change based on the performance of the participant, thus no two persons will pass the same exact test. The tricky part of this test is that the vocabulary is very formal, so participants will often study long list of words and their definition to prepare for the test. The Quantitative section is mostly basic high school math, such as statistics, mental calculations, geometry and reasoning. Again, this test is scored from 130 to 170 points and is computer based. The tricky part of this test is that most science  majors haven't done math at this very elementary level in a long time, so they don't remember the small tricks to solve these problems (time is a big constraint here). The tricky part for non-science majors is that they haven't done math in a long time so they need to relearn some of the material. The Analytical writing part is made of two essays that the participants has to write in 30 minutes each, based on a question or arguments given in the exam. The texts are then scored from 1 to 6 by two judges. The tricky part of this section is that you can't prepare in advance for the essay questions, so you have very limited time to put together a good series of arguments. You also cannot use any dictionary or other resources to check your spelling, grammar, or just facts that you want to include in your essays. However, you are still evaluated on proper spelling, proper grammar and syntax, etc. The GREs are given by a company called ETS (Educational Testing Services), so depending where you live, you will have to go to one of their center and take the test, usually on one of their computer, but some times on paper if you live in a remote area. Taking the test cost $195 US or more, depending on the location and the different promotional offers. Your test results can then be sent directly to the universities you want to apply to. There are also "subject GREs" for specific topics, like physics, biology or English literature. Some departments in the US will require one of those subject tests for admission in addition of the general GRE (described above), thus you need to also take this specific test. This is a different process, different registration dates, tests are paper based instead of computer based, etc. It's also an additional cost. A typical timeline for the GRE will be:Summer : Study for the GRELate summer, early Fall : Take the GRE exam and send your results to universitiesLate Fall and beginning of Winter: application deadline for most graduate programsSpring: Receive admission lettersFall: First semester of graduate school. If you want the possibility to retake the GRE (because you had a bad score the first time), then plan on studying during the Winter, passing the test a first time in the Spring, re-studying in the summer, re-taking the test in the Fall.







GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination conducted by ETS.This exam is basically for graduate studies in few countries especially US.This exam consists of two sections each of QUANTITATIVE SECTION, VERBAL SECTION, an ANALYTICAL WRITING, EXPERIMENTAL SECTION (Compulsory) and a RESEARCH SECTION (Optional).No negative marks.About the exam :                GRE has a unique feature i.e., it is SECTIONAL WISE ADAPTIVE.It means that if your first section of Quant went very well then the next section of Quant will be very difficult(Difficulty of the first section will be the same for everyone). Same is the case in the Verbal section.But the points will be given keeping this in mind. For EX: in QuantCase 1: A person gets 17 in the first section, the second section goes harder    and let's assume that he gets 8 in the next section. He gets a total of 25 right.(Does not mean he gets 130+25=155/170).Case 2: A person scores 8 in the first section, the second section becomes easier and let's assume he gets 17 right in the next section. He also gets a total of 25 right.Although both the above students have scored 25 right out of 40 in Quant.This does not mean both of them scores the same points out of 170, indeed the student in Case 1 who scored more in the first section gets more points.1. Quantitative Section :    There are two sections of this, which basically contains of simple high     school math. Number of questions in each section is 20 and the time limit is 35 min. The score ranges from a minimum of 130 to a maximum of 170 with 1 point increment.2. Verbal Section :    There are again two sections in which there are 20 questions each and time limit of 30 min.The score again ranges from 130 - 170 with one point increment.3. Experimental section :    This is another wonderful feature of GRE wherein you get an additional section of either Quant or Verbal. This section is not evaluated.The twist here is we donot know which section comes first(after Analytical AWA).It might be Quant/Verbal/Experimental. So giving care to each and every section is very important.4. Analytical Writing(AWA) :     This again contains two questions each of 30 min. One is an ARGUMENT writing and another is ISSUE writing.PS: This above data is as of 2015 and might change in the future.







The GRE (administered by ETS -- ETS Home) is the general test required for entry into most US grad schools. It's pretty much the SAT for grad school. If you're applying to any masters or PhD programs in the US, then you'll most likely need to take this test. The test consists of 3 different subjects: math, verbal, and an essay portion. You'll have 2 math sections (each 20 questions and 35 minutes), 2 verbal sections (each 20 questions and 30 minutes), 2 essays (each 30 minutes), and one experimental section. The experimental section can be either math or verbal, and ETS uses this portion of the exam for research. How you do on this section does not affect your score. You can read more about the basics of the exam here: About the GRE revised General Test and here: Introduction to the GRE.







I recently took GRE. Got 330/340 after preparing for 20 days.I got 170/170 in Quant and 160/170 in Verbal. I learned words using Barron's 1100 words android application and Word power made easy(Norman Lewis).Barron's 1100 app link: Barron's 1100 - Android Apps on Google PlayWord power made easy: Buy the book, it's very cheap.I learned words from only these two sources and almost all the words on actual exam were covered in these two sources. Make sure that you do not simply cram the meanings. Try to understand the context.I think only learning these two sources in their entirety are sufficient for building a decent vocab for in GRE. I got a 113/120 in TOEFL too by only these too sources. If you have time, go for Magoosh flash cards App and learn only first two levels, leave the advanced one.One important part for preparation is to be able to apply what you have learned, for that you need a lot of practice. Buy Manhattan 5 pounds book. It has a lot for questions for practice. After learning the vocabulary, practice the questions from Manhattan book. Put more emphasis on RCs and Paragraph completion.For a good GRE score, one advice would be to maximize score in Quant. I used Barron's GRE book for revising basic mathematics concepts and used Manhattan 5 pounds for practice. Do not forget to prepare for the essay part; otherwise you will get an awful 3 like me!Good Luck for your exam.







The best way to prepare for the GRE if you are a beginner is to start well in advance. The word beginner is again relative. What you may consider as something very basic may not be for someone else.Before starting your preparation, you must do a SWOT analysis. Assess your strengths and weaknesses so that it will be easier for you to focus more on the topics you aren’t very comfortable with. Generally people are comfortable with the quants section and tend to struggle with the Quants section. If you haven’t booked a date for your exam yet, it is advisable to take the exam after 6 months of dedicated preparation.You need to know the following about the GRE exam before you start your preparation.The GRE exam has 3 sections the analytical writing section, the verbal section and the quants section.The analytical writing section doesn’t contribute to your GRE score so you needn’t break your head about it.The Quants and verbal section are for 170 marks each. The quants is the scoring section and you should ideally be looking to get 170/170 in this section. Anything more than 160 is a great score when it comes to verbal.You are expected to answer 20 questions in 30 minutes in each of these sections.Something that most of the people don’t know is that the GRE is actually only for 80 marks but the marks are awarded out of 320 so that we don’t assume that a person who scores a 40 is only half as good as a person who scores 80 so the scores are given on a scale of 260–340.Getting to the hardest part of it all PREPARATION:You needn’t prepare for hours together to crack the GRE.Most people find the Quants section easy so you should just be trying to brush up on your basic concepts. I would suggest you make your concepts concrete and don’t get carried away in cramming as many formulas as possible. Once you’re confident enough try taking up a mock test and see where you stand, analyze your mistakes and then go back to those topics and make sure that there isn’t an Achilles heel. Spend as little time as possible preparing for Quants and I don’t think it will take up a lot of time. 1 hour a day for a month and you should be good to go.The dicey section is the verbal section and it will definitely be the make or mar factor in your GRE since you may not be accustomed to the language used. The best way to prepare for the verbal section is to READ. The verbal section is predominantly vocabulary based and being thorough with vocabulary might just make the difference between you getting into an average institute or premier institute abroad.Please try to stick to the following schedule:Spend two hours each day for the verbal section of GRE and one hour for the Quants section.Make sure that your preparation doesn't take a back seat during the weekends or due to some occasion like a friend's birthday.First 10 days:1. Start reading a minimum of 20 pages of content every day. You can start by reading the sports column of the newspaper.2. Subscribe to blogs related to topics you find interesting. I recommend you join medium.com.3. Subscribe to a word a day and try to use the word as much as you can.4. Install Magoosh vocabulary builder from play store on your phone and complete learning the words from all the 7 basic levels and 5 intermediate levels. Keep revising what you have learned before you go on to learn new words.5. Revise all the concepts that you can be tested on in the GRE and solve as many problems as you can. ( Don't approach the problems using formulae. Try a logical approach unless you can solve it faster using a formula.)Note: Whenever you learn a word please try to learn all the possible meanings of the word with the context. Also, learn the antonyms and usage for each word.Reading shouldn't be considered as part of the 2 hours you spend every day for the verbal section.By the end of the first month, you should have:1. Increased the number of pages you read every day to 50.2.You should be thorough with Barron's 800.Please don't try to memorize words. Try to come up with foolproof methods to remember the meanings of the words.3. Solved all possible questions from the quants section, taken up mock tests, analyzed them, revised the concepts where you went wrong and solved a few more sums from the topics you are weak at.The MOCK LOOP with the ERROR LOG:Once you have covered all the bases it is important to put your skills to test. The ETS lets you take up two mock tests before your actual exam. Make sure that you utilize it since the scores that you get in these tests are very accurate i.e., if you take up the actual GRE exam your scores will only vary by 3 marks on either side of the score you obtained in the Mock test.Taking up the mock test at the right point of time is very important:If you take it up without properly preparing the scores that you secure might demotivate you. Ensure that you cover all the concepts and practice them time and again before giving the mock test. This will help you BOOST YOUR CONFIDENCE before the exam.Just taking the mocks won’t help you improve or maximize your scores unless you analyze the test in detail and figure out where you have gone wrong.Document your errors. Cover the concepts again and try to solve the same problem as well as other problems from the same topic until you are very confident that you will get it spot on in the examination.Few suggestions:Install the following apps on your Android phone1. Illustrate - The Video Dictionary. This application is free, and is available on various platforms, including the Apple App Store, Google Play Store, and soon, the Windows Phone Store.2. Pocket GRE Math.3. PrepGame.4. Magoosh vocabulary builder. (must have)5. Magoosh GRE Flashcards. (must have)Try conversing only in English with your friends and family. It's okay to make mistakes, that's how you will learn. It will also help you with your IELTS.Try writing: Try to summarize whatever you've have read each day and get it checked by an expert.Try watching a lot of English movies and tv shows with subtitles. You'll slowly improve your speaking and writing skills.A few of the following tips may come in handy:The GRE is a timed test: If we had all the time we need, then every one of us would get the perfect score on the GRE. But the GRE is a timed test, so it is important to not only be accurate but also quick when it comes to answering the questions. So when preparing for the GRE, time yourself. You are expected to answer 20 questions in 30 mins both in the Verbal and the Quants section. Attempt a lot of mock tests it will help you a lot.Be aware of the wrong answers:The wrong answers generally tend to fall under certain categories which will help you eliminate the wrong choices when it comes to the GRE verbal reasoning section or reading comprehensions.The choices are most probably wrong if they:Assume too muchAre beyond the scope of the passageAre too extremeAre true but involve outside knowledgeAre too specific/too broadSave the worst for the last:They usually say save the best for the last but it doesn’t hold good when it comes to the competitive exams like GRE. You will end up wasting time if you attempt the unfamiliar questions. If you find a question complex, it is better to leave it for the time being and improve your score by answering the questions related to the easier and familiar questions.Utilize the scratch pad:Take short notes while reading the comprehension passage in the space allotted. Eliminate the unnecessary details and words which are just present to throw you off.The following are a few tips that might come in handy when it comes to the reading comprehension but they might also be applied to any question in the verbal section.DUMB them down:Questions on reading comprehension passages have the most gray area when compared to any other type of question in the GRE.Avoid skimming through the questions without understanding what is specifically being asked. If you find a question or choice confusing rephrase the question in your one words.Be on the look out for concessions:In many cases, the author may have a strong voice towards a certain topic or aspect in the passages. The author might have a strong opinion towards certain aspects in a passage and argue for it throughout the passage but then the author might suddenly stop doing so and make subtle or drastic concessions to the opposing side which will weaken the arguments that were previously made in the reading comprehension passage. Make sure that you aren’t thrown by such concessions.Make use of the context:If the question asked is related to a specific line in the reading comprehension passage, it won’t help if you just go back and read the sentence. The thumb rule is to read at least one sentence before and after the aforementioned line.Zero in on the idea behind the longer passages:Majority of the reading comprehension passages that you will come across while taking the GRE will be short but on the off chance that you encounter one or two longer ones, it is advisable to focus more on the first and last paragraphs of the passage and find the big picture of the passage, since time is of the essence.Find the tone of the passage:The tone of the passage can be found using the choice of words or the turn of phrases used by the author. Even if the tone appears to be neutral, assume that it is complex and look for the tone. You can arrive at the tone by observing the diction or by asking the following questions:Does the author feel positively or negatively about a certain topic?What aspect of the topic does the author criticize?What concerns does the author raise through the passage?Which adverbs and adjectives does the author use to voice his opinion?Last but not the leastWatch your diet: An important factor which most students ignore to their detriment is their health and diet. This is very important both during your preparation and while taking the test. Ensure that you stick to a nutritious diet since you will need a lot of energy during your preparation. It is a good thing to avoid eating outside especially junk food, during your preparatory phase. Also, refrain from drinking, partying and taking recreational drugs a week or two before the Test day.P.S. If you are looking for study material I would recommend the following:GRE verbal prep - A definitive guideGRE Prep: Crack the Quantitative Reasoning SectionGre Prep: Crack the Analytical Writing Assessment Section EffortlesslyGood Luck!







I've just taken the test a couple months back, and let me assure you that the answer you might be looking for (not much time required) might be a right answer. I said might because it totally depends upon your existing knowledge and aptitude problem solving capabilities along with your reading habits and existing vocabulary. Verbal Section: Now, as I found out by taking the GRE twice, vocabulary is not the biggest deal that there is. Yes, I know this is contrary to what many people would tell you, but believe me, it's true. You don't need to take in all 4500 words to do well in the verbal section. What you really need is a good reading habit. If you're accustomed to reading The Hindu, The New Yorker, The New York Times, The Atlantic, Pacific Standards, et cetera, you would find the RC part of the GRE not as tough as it is perceived to be. You've got to have a healthy reading habit to do well in the verbal section. Let's auppose that you're not an avid reader, and that you hardly ever read newspapers. In this scenario, I'd advise you to start doing so first thing in the morning- well, after freshening up. And I'm not just talking about a newspaper or two, I'm talking about reading at least one newspaper (offline. Again, The Hindu is as good as it gets, especially here in India.)  and magazines such as The New Yorker, MIT Technology Review, The New York Times, The Atlantic, Pacific Standards, The Economist, The Verge, and a few really good websites such as Nautilus, Arts & Letters Daily. Do it whenever you can. I'd advise you to get up early in the morning and go for a run before rummaging through above sites and reading for at least 3 hours (try to go for editorials and read even the most boring article. It'll help a ton!) a couple months of following this routine (scrupulously) and you should be ready to take on the GRE verbal. Now, from where are you going to learn the new words for the GRE? The answer is, from the magazines you'll read (try maintaining a notebook with the words along with their meaning, usage in a sentence and synonyms.) and from 1100 words by Barron's, Manhattan 500 Basic and 500 Advanced flash cards, and  Magoosh GRE verbal flash cards app. I'd also suggest buying or downloading Manhattan 8 series books. They're amazing and cover literally everything.I know it's a lot of work, but with gusto, it's not that big a baggage, but fun.Quantitative Section:Manhattan 5lbs book. Hands down! Your ultimate guide to get into the late 150 and early 160. To push further, you're gonna have to give a lot of mock tests and solve ETS' guide for GRE. ETS is a must buy. If you're comfortable with the quant part, I'd say a couple weeks should suffice. But still, take 3.5 to be on the safe side and to avoid rushing through the exercises. Manhattan 8 series books will also help you here with concepts.AWA: Now, with the help of 8 series guide's and ETS' guidelines and the topics given in their site, you should be able to nail this one if you are into writing or reading. Practice it for a week or so and you're ready for it. It's quite fun, to be honest. Most importantly, don't lose hope, gusto, and be focused. And, maintain a time-table. Good luck.







GRE PREPARATION STRATEGYTry to follow this Chronological GRE Preparation Strategy~First of all take a Diagnostic Test, available at ETS. Analyse your Scores.This Score will give you an idea of your strengths and shortcomings. You should plan and devote time for your GRE preparations accordingly.The GRE Quant tests your basic level of Maths, Specially for Engineering students. You should aim for a full score 170 in Quantitative section. This would help in increasing your overall score.The main area of Concentration is the Vocabulary and RC in the Verbal section.You should Download these two Apps for your iOS/Android device- Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flashcards & Barron's 1100 Words. These are well organised Apps for GRE Vocab Building.An average student needs 300 hours of GRE Preparation to aim for 300+ Scores (I'm not considering the Super Kids who write GRE in 15/20/30 Days & get 320+ Scores). You should calculate you time that can be spared in Weekdays/Weekends for GRE prep. This way you can estimate your tentative date for GRE Exam. Generally 3–4 months time is enough for Preparation.Spare another 20–30 hours for writing Full-length tests, in the last week of Preparations.Some Important points to Consider before GRE PreparationsYou should do initial research for Specific MS programs. Shortlist Universities in Ambitious & Safe categories. Check their required GRE scores & plan your Preparations accordingly.Start your GRE Prep at least 8–9 months before the start of Application window. So even if you don't get your desired score, then also you have enough time to rewrite it.By the time of your GRE exam you should be in a position to shortlist the Four Universities where you are going to send your Official GRE score for Free. Else you will land up shelling extra $ for sending your Official score.Remember you need another Substantial time to complete the other parts of Application like Transcripts, SOP, LOR etc.If you are looking for Financial Aids & Scholarships then you should be able to apply at the earliest (Preferably when the Application Window opens). Earlier applications gives you a lot of Funding opportunities & it's it's for you to take decisions in picking up the best admits (College Reputation & the Financial Aids).I would Not suggest you to have a Counselor before your GRE scores. However you can join a GRE Coaching (Weekend/Online) if needed.“Don't Practice until you get it Right; Practice until you can't get it Wrong !”All the Best. Keep Rocking!~ Dr SSR.







I would recommend beginning with a practice test to get a sense of where you are relative to where you want to be. One of the two free and official tests available with the Power Prep II software is your best option. You should also take the time to set very specific goals. One of the worst mistakes that many students make is going into the GRE looking to do "the best they can." Research the programs where you want to apply and find out the median GRE scores of accepted applicants. This is important because if you need to break a specific score plateau to get into the program and schools you want, then you should set your score goals accordingly. If you need a 160 on each section of the GRE, it can be a great disservice to try to score a 170. Rather than spreading yourself too thin trying to get everything right, it makes the most sense to set specific targets of right answers that correspond with your score goals. Thus, if your score goal corresponds to roughly 15 right answers out of every 20 question section, then you should make it priority #1 to find and answer 15 questions correctly in every section. That's not to say you shouldn't answer every question but you should recognize that you can afford to get 5 wrong and if you don't know how to approach a particular question on test day, you might be best served guessing it quickly and banking the remaining time into other questions where you have a better chance at a right answer.Once you have baseline scores in hand and know what kind of improvement you need to do, the next step is to tackle the fundamentals. Most of the facts and formulas tested on the GRE are on the Quant side so most GRE study plans tend to be a bit lopsided in favor of the quant. That's because there are lots of arithmetic, algebra and geometry facts and formulas that could be tested on. They aren't all tested equally, however, so make sure you pay attention to high yield concepts like ratios, classic quadratic equations and special right triangles. From the beginning of your course you should also make a point of studying high frequency vocabulary words. Most GRE books and websites will have a list of 100 to 500 words that you should master. Six weeks won't make you a vocabulary whiz but you can fill in some of the more glaring holes in your word knowledge. You should spend at least your first two weeks on the content. If you find it's taking much longer, you may have to postpone taking the test because without the fundamentals there's no point in going further.Once you have got the content down the next step is to transition into test strategy. You should master the various ways of answering multiple choice questions like plugging in numbers and working backwards and look for ways to employ these strategies. It can help to answer the same question in a few different ways and compare. As you do this, it is critical to remember that the GRE is mainly a reasoning test, so you should always try to think first and employ logic and avoid just jumping into rote calculation. This middle period is also the time to start working through your solving methods for some of the most common word problem types: overlapping sets, rates, weighted and unweighted averages, combined work, inverse variation and others. The GRE heavily favors word problems and so learning how to solve stereotypical problem types will lead directly to points.On the verbal side, you should make a point of establishing timing guidelines for reading comprehension passages and questions. You should also learn the various types of questions that come with reading comp and the trap answers that accompany those question types. This knowledge doesn't take that long to acquire but recognizing question types, employing the proper techniques for answering them and avoiding common trap answers is a skill perfected only with extensive practice. You should also give yourself at least a few days of study to learn and master the logical reasoning questions. These are very different from standard reading comp, though they are usually lumped in with them. I find that most GRE prep books don't provide enough logical reasoning instruction or practice, so you may want to investigate some GMAT or LSAT critical/logical reasoning resources, since these question types are virtually identical to what you will find on the GRE and they have been staples of the GMAT and LSAT for years.  The stage of strategy learning and mastery should take you about two more weeks.  In the final two weeks, you should transition into full practice. Of course CAT practice tests are the gold standard for practice but they are also harder to come by and you should plan when you take them carefully. You should take the second Power Prep test either halfway through your training or a week before you take the test, since it's so valuable. If you need more computerized practice, check out the online or CD Rom resources that come with your books. Paper tests aren't the best option but can be helpful if you are able to be strict with your timing.One of the best ways to practice without using up your resources too quickly is the 5 question drill. In general your timing needs to be flexible on the GRE as some questions will simply take longer than others to solve. That said, you should maintain an average speed per question. The 5 question drill is a compromise between those two divergent aims. For the quant section you should complete 5 questions every 10 minutes and for verbal every 9 minutes. How you use that 9 or 10 minutes is up to you, so long as you complete the string by the end of the timing--even if that means guessing the questions for which you have no idea. So a great way to practice timing and strategy is to continuously work through strings of 5 questions in the required timing until you get a feel for the general pacing of the test and the types of tough in-test decisions you'll have to make to succeed. You should also use these drills to really put a heavy focus on accuracy and avoiding careless mistakes. Make sure you are reading questions carefully, calculating carefully and considering alternative solving strategies when your chosen solving method seems too long and involved.As you approach the test, make sure you spend some time on areas that you may have neglected. Practice your strong areas so that you can keep your confidence high and avoid being rusty in these areas. Choose your templates and timing guidelines for the essays. Make sure to practice the sentence completions, particularly questions on which you don't know all of the words and have to work around tough vocabulary--as this will happen on test day. You should begin to visualize the conditions of the test itself: the testing center, the order of the test (essays first, then the 5 quant and verbal sections), the clunky onscreen calculator you will have. Try to take your last practice tests in a computer lab or library to more closely recreate this experience. In the final days make sure you have your admission ticket and know how to get to the testing center. Finally, don't study the night before the test--get good rest and review your mental game plan.







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is a test of your overall performance in terms of your quantitative aptitude, English language proficiency and analytical writing skills. The quantitative section deals with your high school math fundamentals. Questions from your basic math are asked in a brain teasing way. Tackling this section with ease requires lots of practice. The most important constraint is the time. You will have to solve the paper within the allotted time. The following information provides you with a detailed insight into the quantitative section along with some useful math tips that will help improve your score. Areas of concern for GRE quant sectionThe GRE Quant Section concentrates primarily on 4 major areas namelyArithmeticAlgebraGeometryData analysisOne should not anticipate direct and easily solvable questions in the Math section of the GRE paper. You will be asked questions from the above mentioned concepts in a twisted fashion. These questions take much of your time if you are not prepared well. The questions might involve a single concept or else might be based on more than one concept. Usually, the questions asked are the ones involving more than one concept. The crux of the given problem involves simple logic and if you are one among those who strike the right chord, you will surely be successful. For such ability, you will require lot of practice and some tips to improve your aptitude and save time. GRE Quantitative tips will help you a lot.ArithmeticUnderstanding the number family such as prime, positive, negative, even and odd numbers is the key to scoring in Arithmetic’s.Familiarity with elementary mathematics such as ratios, decimals, percentage, probability, etc could be established through preparative materials such as Kaplan’s Maths Guide and workbooks.The various rules associated with logical reasoning could be written down and reviewed periodically as logical reasoning always has an upper hand in solving these problems more easily when compared to formulas.AlgebraPractice should be initiated with simple questions followed by challenging problems.Basic algebra concentrates on variable manipulations and simplifying equations.Scratch paper must be used to solve these problems rather than attempting to solve them in your head. This technique avoids confusion and increases speed.Changing signs are the areas of common mistakes to look out for in Algebra. Continuous practice and clear understanding of concepts resolves these problems.GeometryYou could begin by mastering primary planar geometry involving lines, angles and basic shapes. Geometric formulas for basic calculations should be memorized.Diagrams must always be constructed for these types of questions. Illustrations are always a shortcut to solving geometry problems efficiently in lesser time than required.DataAnalysisData Analysis includes questions from statistics involving mean, median, mode, frequency distributions, charts, tables and graphs.Tackling these questions begin with scanning through the presented data to get a fundamental idea and focusing only on the conditions required for answering the questions.It is mandatory to keep an eye open to characteristics such as axes of graphs, units of measurements and orders of magnitude to avoid common conversion errors.More the practice, better are the chances of scoring in these questions.You can also watch my videos https://www.youtube.com/channel/... Or you can visit my website for excellent online course for GRE at www.catking.in







Hello there, As suggested by the other posters, there are multiple options for test prep in Bangalore. At the end of the day, how effective a program is boils down to a few key things.Teaching philosophy of the institute (do they only cater to high scorers, or do they only focus on strategy etc.)Expertise of the trainers (have they been taught to merely deliver a templated course or are they people who have taken the tests themselves and have mastery over the subjects)Quality of the courseware and the computer based tests you receive.When you’re picking a coaching program, figure out the following things:1. Sit through a session of the teacher you are likely to study under (as a demo).2. Ensure that the Study materials are industry standard; you don’t want to be practicing / learning from a spiralled copy of the CAT / GATE tests - you won’t see good results through that.3. Seek word of mouth4. Check out their policy on post-class support. Will teachers provide support up to the day of the test, or will they abandon you as soon as their classes are done?5. Make sure that the practice resources and full length tests emulate the actual GRE. Again research online to find this out.If you find that a training program checks off all these items, then go ahead and enroll. You’ll definitely see improvements in scores. At the end of the day go with what your ‘gut’ tells you after evaluating all those aspects discussed!That said, I am cofounder of PlusPrep, a test prep company. These values form our core principles and we strive to provide the best in world preparation experience and mentorship to each of our students at affordable prices. Do get in touch with us if you want to have some of the best teachers in India work with you on your GRE preparation!Godspeed!







In my opinion Byjus is the best for Gre preparation.The best of byjus is the teachers who teach you the course. They are themselves the toppers in Gre exams. Verbal part is taken by P.N.SANTOSH who has got 338 out of 340 in Gre Exam and He is having a mathematical approach to solve the Reading comprehension section. He know how to take you from the basic to the very high level. Byjus classes is using the technology well, if technology is available why you want to waste it. You will not get this kind of teachers anywhere in other coaching institutes. If you are a person who is self motivated then you join byjus as you will not be having anyone to monitor your performance . If you want someone to push you always join other institutes.Join byjus if you want to learn lots of shortcut techniques and bell the Gre Exam.







I would not recommend joining a coaching center for GRE preparation. Prepare on your own. All they do is teach you some strategies which can be learnt by going through any one of the quality books available in the market.Concepts:I would personally recommend Manhattan series(8 books) to cover all the concepts, strategies and the different types of questions for both quants and verbal.Practice:Quants:Manhattan 5lbOfficial GuideOnce you finish 5lb and OG, you can try Nova. If you finish Nova and have plenty of time with you, then you can solve pretty much any book that you can get your hands on.Note: GRE quant is easy but very tricky after a certain point, that is, if you perform well in the first section. If a question is taking you a lot of time then, probably, it means that you are doing it the wrong way. It is very important to approach a question correctly so that it can be solved in the least amount of time possible. The only way this can be developed is via practice. You can also refer to GMAT books(GMAT Official Guide, Manhattan GMAT guide etc) to help you with this as GMAT quants are generally trickier compared to GRE. Also, keep a tab on your mistakes and avoid making the same mistake again.Verbal:Manhattan 5lb, GMAT OG, GRE OGWords: Use Magoosh appDo not concentrate on mugging up words. Instead, read articles from quality sources such as The Economist, NYT, etc. It will help you develop your vocabulary as well as stamina to grasp long and dense passages. Coming to sentence completion, it is vital that you carefully choose the options that make the most amount of sense and fit the context. If you just blindly mug up words, it will NOT help you in this section. You have to read the sentence first and choose words that fit the context. You will develop this only with practice and reading articles from aforementioned sources.Long story short, the more you read and practice from quality sources the better you will be in this sectionFull length Tests:Lastly, I would advice you to give at least 10+ full length tests. Believe me, this is one of the most critical aspect of preparation for the GRE.P.S: If you really want to join a coaching center, I would recommend you Magoosh. Not only do they provide you with quality strategies and tutorials but also tons of questions along with video explanation for each of them.Moreover, they cover all the topics unlike many of the books available in the market. It's really worth it.BEST OF LUCK!!







TL;DR - Go for GREedge.Now the long story.Before getting into the debate of which coaching institute is best for GRE, let us look at the ingredients of a good GRE score.Start with a diagnostic test.Just like a medical test, a diagnostic will help you identify your weaker areas in GRE. It will tell you where do you stand in your preparation. The score you get in a diagnostic test is what your current GRE score would be. Don't worry if your diagnostic store is low. This is just the start point of your preparation. You got work to do from here.Make a proper study plan.GRE isn't as gracious as your semester exams when it comes to scoring good marks. Only proper practice and preparation will take you there in the GRE. Hence an organized study plan. Keep your diagnostic test score and target score in mind and prepare a proper study plan. Make sure you make a plan that doesn't disturb your daily routine (college or work)Review your progress frequently.Divide your preparation in sessions of an hour or two. Have targets of finishing a certain portion every session. Once you finish the session, review your performance thoroughly. Identify the mistakes and rectify them (very important). Find out the solutions to the questions you were unsure of. Then practice again. Keep a check on how you are progressing.Make your learning fun. Use picture based wordlists.Sooner or later you are going to get bored of your preparation. So it is always recommended that you make your learning fun. Don't go for those long & boring alphabetical wordlists. Picture based wordlists will help. It will make your preparation enjoyable. This way, you'll keep yourself motivated for a better score.Take as many practice tests as possible.GRE is an online adaptive test. The difficulty level changes with your performance. You need to get used to the GRE like interface even before you take the exam. GRE style tests and practice tests a good way experiencing the GRE before the actual GRE. It will give you a hands-on experience of the exam, which is very important especially in GRE.Get guidance from an expert.For things like AWA, you'll be needing the help of an expert. Because let's face it, one cannot evaluate his own essays. An expert has to look at it and give you suggestions and tips on how to improve your essays. You'll hardly find AWA tips in any books and most coaching classes ignore the AWA section. A good score in AWA is of high significance during admissions. Spend some extra time and effort on it.These are the basic requirements of a good GRE score. If you follow these steps properly, reaching your target score will be a walk in the park.Btw, one such institute I can think of, which provides all the above, is GREedge. Good thing is that they are online and you can study any time you want, anywhere you want. Moreover, they provide personal trainers, who will monitor your progress continuously.It saves travelling time and doesn't interfere with your work or college.Your Step by Step guide to GRE SuccessThanks for the A2A Divya Nadhella :)







If u prefer self study and looking for good study materials for your prepartion that can fetch u a good score in GRE then have a look on the below mentioned materials.I assure the quality of the materials is top notch.Pdfs include:-1 - The Princeton Review - Cracking the GRE premium 2018 edition2 - Manhattan latest - 4th edition (8 books)3 - Barrons new GRE 19th edition4 - Kaplan GRE preparation 2019 - latest edition.5 - Grubers Complete GRE Guide - 4th edition.6 - ETS official Guide to GRE7 - ETS Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning practice questions8 - ETS official GRE verbal practice questions9 - ETS GRE BIG Book which include 27 test with answers.10 - Manhattan preparation GRE Flash cards (1003 pages)11 - 501 series which include:-501 Critical reasoning questions501 Reading comphrension questions501 Grammar and Writing questions501 Sentence completion questions501 Synonyms and Antonyms Questions12 - GRE verbal made easy by barron13 - Word lists by majortest. com (15 pdfs)14 - Common error in english usage15 - Manhattan prepartion 5lb book of GRE practice problems.16 - The Ultimate Guide to GRE Alzebra which include 700 real GRE questions with lucid analysis.Arithmetic which include 1250 real GRE questions with detailed explanation.17 - Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flash Cards.18 - Master the GRE CAT by Acro Petersons.19 - Wren and Martin20 - RS Agarawal Quantitative aptitude21 - ETS paper based revised GRE practice Book.22 - Mcgraw's Hills GRE premium total test preparation program 6 practice tests.23 - Novas GRE maths Bible24 - Word Power made easy25 - SP Bakshi objective General English26 - Kaplan GRE writing wokbook- 3rd edition ( 844 pages)27 - 15000 useful phrases.28 - Magoosh Complete Quant covering 900+ questions with detailed answers.29 - 501 Word analogy and Writing Prompts.30 - GRE flash cards31 - 3 model question papers of GRE by Ramki's Ultimate Guide.32 - Magoosh 580+ Quant Questions with answers33 - Barrons GRE high frequency 333 words Vocublary list.34 - 100+ Novels35 - English Grammar secrets by Caroline Brown and Pearson Brown36 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Advanced words Flash cards.37 - Kaplan GRE verbal book38 - The Princeton Review word smart for the GRE.39 - Memory techniques by Krupa40 - Magoosh basic Quant,verbal,Awa etc videos.41 - The Ultimate Guide to Analytical Writing which include:-* Essays on Issues - Lesson and Model essays on 50 Topics* Essays on Arguments - Lesson and model essays on 10 topics.42 - Sample SOP and LOR43 - list of Universities which accept GRE.44 - Barrons Audio Vocabulary ( 14 audio clips)45 - Kaplan writing topics46 - ETS mathematical conventions for the Quantitative Reasoning Book47 - The GRE uncovered - Introduction to GRE by Manhattan48 - Flash cards of Barron 320049 - Magoosh 1000 pdf of common high Frequency words.50 - 501 Quantitative Reasoning questions with answers51 - 1000 Reading comphrension1000 Sentence correction52 - RC 99 by Aristotle53 - Ace the GRE writing Assessment by Acro Petersons54 - VISA Preparation55 - Vocabulary with Pictures56 - KAPLAN Quantitative Reasoning57 - Cliffs Test preparation GRE CBT ( 6th edition)58 - Guide to Geometry which include 8 identified categories with 1240 authentic examples.59 - Barrons GRE common prefix with meaning and illustrations.60 - Ample amount of practice materials for AWA and verbal.61 - Aristotle GRE verbal GRAIL.62 - Nova's GRE prepartion course63 - Princeton new GRE verbal workout64 - Ramki's The Ultimate Guide to Verbal reasoning which include:-Reading comphrension - 380 real GRE questions with answersText completion - 435 real GRE questions with answersSentence Equivalence -120 real GRE questions with answers65 - Magoosh Complete guide to Vocabulary66 - Barrons 6 GRE practice tests.67 - Kaplan GRE Premier with 6 practice tests.68 - ETS GRE general Test Practice book69 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Maths flash Cards (998 pages)70 - GRE full tests for Practice ( 36 Tests with answers)71 - 1014 Practice questions for the new GRE by Princeton Review72 - Manhattan New text completion supplement73 - A student's introduction to English Grammar by Rodney Huddleston and Geoffre K Pullum.I am selling the above mentioned materials at a very nominal amount of Rs 200.U can pay through any of these mobile wallet:- Paytm,Bhim, Phonepe,Tez etc.So interested one (only Indians) can ping me on Whatsapp 7737428150.







I suggest you to first check out Magoosh GRE, before looking for coaching centers. Continue reading and you’ll know why I’m suggesting you Magoosh as best GRE prep.From the above screenshot you can see that you get Realistic Score Predictor (my friend had scored exactly as predicted by Magoosh) along with timing. They have more than 200 lessons and 1000+ questions with video explanations for each, which you can watch as many times as you want. All the lesson videos range from basic concepts till advanced level required for the test. The number of questions appearing from each topic will be clearly mentioned so that you can practice that specific topic more and score high.As you can see in the above image, you can even customize your Unlimited Practice Sessions/Tests.For practice sessions, you canChoose section ( Verbal/ AWA / Maths)Select subjects/topics as per your wishYou can even select difficulty level as Adaptive — just like in real GRE. It even has easy/medium/hard difficulty levels.You can select from different question pool like Unanswered, Answered, Incorrect or Flagged.You can flag questions/lessons while practicing.Select Number of questions for a practice session.Practice with/without time limitation.Select Quiz Mode/Practice Mode.From the above features you can focus in which ever topic you want, whenever you want. You can’t get all these advantages if you go for coaching centers.For every question, you get all the options that you can see in the above screenshot. You can compare your pacing with others’ pacing. It even has an on screen calculator/ timer — just like in real GRE. Each and every video lesson and question explanation video has option to take notes which will be helpful during revision. They even clarify doubts through emails if you have any doubts regarding any question. If you are willing to pay some money, they even have one-on-one session to train you.They have amazing flashcards which have lots of words arranged according to difficulty/frequency level. The flashcards feature is completely free and you can even use in from computer/mobile. They even have android and IOS apps using which you can practice even during commute/whenever you want.To help memorize all those words, I use Mnemonic Dictionary.You can try all the Magoosh features completely free for 7 days and then decide if online course / offline coaching institutes suits you. To get it completely free for 7 days, click on the above link and click signup/try it now. Then, click on “free trial” that is just below premium plans.I hope my answer helped you.







Anybody can score 330+ in GRE. I followed a 3 week preparation plan.It is important to understand that the GRE is very different as compared to the other exams we are used to giving, talking from an Indian’s perspective. Blind hard work will not serve any purpose and sometimes will be counterproductive.ETS (the company that conducts the GRE) wants to convince you that your score is a measure of how good you are at ‘critical thinking’, but in reality it is only a measure of how good you are at giving the GRE. So, fortunately for us, the more you practise in the correct way, the better you become at giving the GRE.The Correct Way (in my experience) :Quality > Quantity. Always. Please do not spend 10+ hours a day mechanically solving problems and forgetting about them as you move forward. This will cause you to plateau at a certain skill level. The key is small incremental improvements.For me, the ideal way was a simple 3 step process :1.	Solve problems in small sets, around 20(+5 || -5) questions per set.2.	Check your answers. See the solutions, understand them thoroughly.3.	After checking all, recap the questions you got wrong, why, and what you learnt from them. This is extremely important.Let’s jump into the schedule now, shall we?Pre-prep phase (1 week) :Okay, I lied, it’s not really 3 weeks, but this pre-prep phase won’t take more than two hours of your time per day, and what’s more, you can easily do this while you eat or just before sleeping.What is to be done? Words, Words and more Words.Spend this week learning the words from the following apps :1.	Barron’s 11002.	Magoosh Flash Cards (around 1000 words)3.	Manhattan Essential Words (around 500 words)Vocabulary is essential to understanding the Reading Comprehensions as well as the sentence completions, so please complete this before moving ahead!Week 1 :Congratulations! The boring part is done. This week, let’s do :1.	4 Practice Tests2.	Practise each type of question in isolation. For example, do 20 Text Completions in one set. This will help you to identify weaknesses to work on.3.	Brush up all the shortcuts and maths formulae that you encounter.(Online Magoosh article exists)Week 2 :This week, let’s move forward with :1.	6 Practice Tests.2.	Do mixed practice sets now (All types of problems together), to simulate the actual GRE scenario.3.	Strictly time your tests and practice sets. Keep 5 minutes per section as a buffer. Identify which type of questions you are slow at. Work on them.Week 3 :Buckle up, this is your final lap :1.	8 practice tests.2.	Start reading AWA essays online, as well as general structuring tips. A lot of video material is available online. Practise a few essays if necessary.3.	Revise the Vocabulary words and mathematical formulae.At the end of this schedule, you should be ready to face the GRE. So be confident, sleep well before the paper and ohh, don’t forget to carry a jacket. It’s freezing in there.Thanks for reading! Please do upvote if this helped you.







Hey,I have recently taken GRE for the first time on 25th August . I scored 319 with Verbal: 151 & Quant: 168. Though it is not pretty good score but I made it without any tuition classes ,just by self-preparation. So if you are taking any tuition classes then it may not be the best answer that you are looking for.I am one Electrical Engineering student so writing GRE is a whole different experience for me than a student of Arts or Economics.If you do belong to Engineering or Science background then it may not be a hurdle for you to get 165+ in Quant section.For Quant section I only followed ETS Official Guide . It has lots of good examples which literally can help you gain clear idea about GRE maths. So first start with this book , study and solve all the problems in Maths Review Section. GRE maths are basic maths from class 9 or 10. So you will find no uncommon topic but only one. That’s a chapter containing concepts of SD , ND ,Percentile .For that Magoosh will provide a great support. GRE Math: Percentiles and Quartiles - Magoosh GRE Blog .Now for Verbal section you have to plan a schedule. For general students of Science background have problems in Verbal section. For that generally people start to remember as many words possible. But here I will suggest not to go for Barron’s 3500 or Nova’s 4000. As these all were quite helpful for OLD GRE. Revised GRE does not test your stock of words rather it tests your ability to use and understand the context of quite normal words. Here for that a list of 1000 words will play a great role. Generally Magoosh’s 1000 is recommended but you don’t even have to complete 1000 words just do Common and Basic words and ignore Advance Words.If you are having more than 2 months then start to remember the words as soon as possible because you have to revise them everyday . Start to remember 20–30 words a day. Then try to use all these words in daily conversation or text writing . Your friends may end up calling you a scumbag think that you are showing you vocab stock but believe me it literally gonna help you a lot. If you do minimum 25 words a day you will complete all Common and Basic Words (650) in 25 days.If you have a strong vocab you can easily score good in SE & TC section. Now you have to go for RC & CR practice. For this you can always go with Manhattan 5lb. book but make sure you are not taking this book as a level of GRE just because some of the questions in RC section are way too easy where some can be real pain . Questions are not distributed properly.But still it has lots of good passages which gonna help you a lot to build you reading habit if you already are not a avid reader like me :) Manhattan book’s SE and TC section is way too vague as it collects all the rough and obsolete words from dictionary and put them in a question. So you may not find any confidence solving this.So summing up the whole point start preparing for GRE with remembering words from Magoosh List or Magoosh flashcard app. Then go for RC and CR.Last thing is writing Mock Tests. There are lots of test available most of them are free. But make sure you are not writing any irrelevant test as it either gonna hinder your confidence or gonna over estimate your scores. Start with ETS power prep 1 followed by some 5–6 other test and end this rally of exams with ETS power prep 2 .For AWA section write few Arguments and Issues from ETS pool . And to create your strategy read as many as AWA possible from GRE SAT LSAT GED TOEFL MCAT ACT IELTS GMAT Test PrepGRE is not at all a tough exam I cracked it with 20 days attentive preparation.I was blessed that I never needed to solve maths .But the main thing is practice. I regret not practicing much verbal questions from books . You please don’t run the same mistake.Hope this helps :)







Many GRE experts say that you don't need to learn the exhaustive word-list in the new GRE format. Well it's true that you won't encounter many words out of the "high frequency word-lists" on your D-Day. For example, in most of the sentence equivalence questions, your answer will be the pair of words, among which, one is a general word and another one is a High Frequency GRE word. Say, "support" and "bolster". But ETS doesn't provide you any such word-list. Many words in one High Frequency Word List won't be on another list. The truth is, learning 2000-3000 words can give you an extra edge and you can score at least 5 more marks in your verbal section. Not only this. The good thing about learning new words is the fact that this is the only part of your GRE Test which is going to help you in the long run. Suppose you learned a word yesterday and you encounter that word while reading today's newspaper. The bliss it brings is just amazing. Your frequency to check for a word meaning in a dictionary will reduce by nearly 60%. Improving your vocabulary is really a good thing. And the GRE Test is the best excuse to achieve it. Don't take it as a burden. Take it as an opportunity.Okay, I am sorry I digressed from the main question. The best method to memorize GRE Words is to make FLASH CARDS and REVISE REVISE and REVISE. Pick a wordlist and aim to learn 50 words per day. On the next day, before learning the next 50 words, revise what you learned yesterday and make Flash Cards for those words which you don't remember. Also make flashcards of those words which you think you'll probably forget in the future. Don't learn new words on Sunday. Revise all the words you've learned till date from your flashcards.If you don't revise on a weekly basis, most likely you'll forget most of the new words within two weeks.Ankit Sharma's answer to Which is the best word list?Good Luck.







As enlisted in above answers, contextual way of learning of words are better than mugging up for a longer run.But how do we do that?Reading books and newspaper articles,watching movies or engaging in conversations which gives you a proper context to use words.But all these methods takes like forever to learn all the words.Our main concern is how to remember words easily within a shorter duration.How to build your GRE vocabulary in a short span of time?At the same time we can’t overload our brain with words. So how do we learn the words?1. Learn GRE words with pictures-Images help you define words in a meaningful context. They enable you to understand and utilize vocabulary in different aspects of life. In addition, they help you remember the words every time you see the object.Here is how to learn GRE words using pictures and a video on how to use CV Flashcards which you can buy from Amazon.2. Learn Vocabulary for GRE through Word Roots-Root Root words are the basic words to which affixes (prefixes and suffixes) are added to form the new word.Focusing on your test prep time on root words in addition to learning individual word can save your time,energy and improve your score is possible you will see words you do not know.Therefore,knowing the roots may help you get a sense of the general meaning of certain words3. Learn Theme based GRE Words-Your brain loves to make connections between things. So when you’re sad, and it’s raining, there’s a little part of you that feels like maybe your sadness is so heart-wrenchingly profound that you actually altered the weather.Or when you can see a leaf fall from a tree and suddenly get crystal-clear, long-forgotten flashbacks to your first day raking leaves, or visiting the mountains.When you see a leaf, your brain does this:So you can take up a theme and learn around 10 words associating it.Becomes much easier!!These are just a few points but you can check out this blog on - A detailed approach on how to learn vocabulary the points mentioned are really useful and will help you remember GRE words more easily.







The first question I want to ask you is, from where exactly are you going to find a list which will contain only GRE types of words. You just cant, what you can do is basically prepare for the best for the words which are applicable in your daily life, GRE never asks you the meaning of words that you are never going to use in real life. The whole purpose of giving GRE verbal section is that you can thrive in the American and other countries where English will be the first language for communication.So prepare for the words that you think that are actually going to be helpful in your real life scenarios and which you think could be and would be used in real life. The best way to prepare for these words are picking up reading material that is in your comfort zone and marking down and researching about the words you find foreign yet applicable in your life.So what does researching actually involves?1.Finding the correct meaning through dictonary2. Finding the root of the word if any3 . Finding the synonym and antonym of the word which you think is applicable in real life4.Jotting down a little extract of the pasage that you found the word in5. Following up the word and using it in real life, also involves thorough revision.Doing the above step for lets say 5 words everyday, will enhance your vocabulary effectively. I have also included a follow up action to be take in the research section because it is actually very important to do so. You have to go back to the words you learn before, to revise is to relearn and that is wht you need to do.Also, if you dont have much time in giving your GRE, I would recommend the following method.Steps to learn new words in effective manner  1.Pickup reading material that excites you let it be newspaper, books, novels or whatever.  2. Mark the words that you find foreign and jot them down. 3. Try to identify the roots of the words. 4. Later try to find the meaning of these words on your own in terms of the context you read and literal meaning in dictionary.  Now to learn the roots I would suggest you to refer to book by “Norman Lewis” called “Word power made easy”. But just learning the roots is not enough you need to learn its application and for that I suggest you to download the app VOLT – Vocabulary Learning Technique. And it is made by IIT and IIM alumni; the app has many great features that will help you.   Some of them are,   1.Pictorial representation of the word ( In the sense it can be used ) explained correct meaning 2.Provision of synonym and antonyms of every word, its usage in sentence , pronunciation of the word in both verbal track and written (break down of the word) .  3. The app has numerous words which can be learnt and are used in our day to day lives.  4. If you are going to give your GRE exam in 2-3 months then this app is bible for you, as in less time you will be able to learn the most probable words that could be asked in you exam   The App provides with pictures that represent the word. Visual representation leaves maximum impression on our brain and hence makes it very easy to learn new words.  But the best usage of VoLT can only be taken if you practice the words regularly in your daily life and apply them as much as you can. Else it’s just mugging up words that will lead you nowhere.   The above mentioned technique will not only help you in your GRE only but also will bean indispensible tool in preparation of your TOEFL exam. I have seen people prepare for their TOEFL in just 2 days and score 100+, but this is a very risky method to follow and isonly suitable for people who have given their GRE as they have already worked on their English skills.Make sure to check out our app VOLT on Google play store. It now has over 1.1 lakh downloads and has amazing cool features that will make your verbal section easy and interestingVoLT: Vocabulary Learning Technique , helps student prepare for Verbal and Vocabulary section of competitive exam.Link for download VoLT - Vocabulary Learning - Android Apps on Google Play







It's a great way to start prepping with word list , but it's not as big deal as you might think of it to be. I've seen people going crazy to learn all the words, instead stay calm take them in as you encounter them. Few things that worked out for me were:1- Reading - and the best thing to read when you want to enhance your vocab is newspaper, (The hindu, my personal choice). I used to read editorial everyday and mark the words that I couldn't understand. Gradually, in a week or two you'll start coming across familiar words.2- POS- secondly, the meaning of the word is not enough, you need to know the parts of speech to which it belongs to, if you keep mugging up the word meanings, you might end up using them in wrong places , where they don't fit.3- memrise-  this is the website that worked marvels for me. memrise.com has all the wordlists that you might need. If you practice it regularly, I'm sure it'll help you a lot.4-Usage- using the words as you learn them is the most important thing you should do. You can use them in random conversations with friends. Initially though your friends might think that you are showing off your large vocab, but in the end you'll be the one who'll gain. Words that you use are going to stick to your mind, amf you'll be able to use it again amd again. And this my friend is THE MOST important trick.Hope it helps. All the best :)







Cultivate a habit of reading extensively. Any book (my personal recommendation are the classics), magazines – The Economist, Reader’s Digest,newspapers – NewYork Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Guardian(the best content lies in the editorials, and definitely not in the Page-3/entertainment section), websites and news sites (BBC has some of the finest content).To learn something new (activity, word etc.), learn by making associations. To learn new words, learn them by associating with a few words you already know; and associating with a few sentences.Etymological associations are the best. Learn the root of these words, learn how they were derived. As a bonus, etymological learning opens your horizons to the whole family of new words derived from the same root.Another association is learning with the synonyms. As you come across the new words, learn the synonyms for these words. There's a very fair chance you might know one or more of them.Most importantly, learn by usage. Every new word you learn, understand how it's various forms are used in a sentence. This makes your learning much more concrete. It is now a well established fact that you cannot learn a word by looking at it once, unless you are gifted with anesthetic memory.For the common people like us, we need to read them once, twice, thrice,and many more times. A general thumb rule is that you have to get exposed to the word 4-7 times (tend to the higher side for the more complex words), distributed over 15 days. That drills the word into your sub-conscious mind. Make it a habit to recall these new words regularly. As you read any website or newspaper, try replacing the words with the new set of words you've learnt.Last,and perhaps the best thing you can do is use this newly gained vocabulary as often as possible. You might, at times, sound outlandish; that's fine. Remember, vocabulary is like Siri, the more you use, the better it gets.I used Vocabsmith GRE app and it was very useful to remember words. It helped me learn the words, meanings, etymology, pronunciation, meanings with their usages. Further, VocabSmith would revise all the words over 2-3 weeks; this ensured I wouldn’t forget the words. I had subscribed to their GRE – High Frequency Package(1000 words) and could learn all the words in approximately two months.1.iOS:https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/...2.Android:https://play.google.com/store/ap...







checkout this videoDownload High Priority GRE Words eBOOK here- http://bit.ly/2zyIBr9 Checkout Wordbot App here- https://bit.ly/2Ndchhm 1:37 Most of you guys know that there are about 3500 GRE words to be learnt. Do you actually know where you are going to use these GRE words? It’s simple. In all the three sections. How?Let me explain. 1:55 Reading Comprehension It is no secret that the RC passages are scholarly, long and boring. Some of these passages have GRE words embedded between the sentences. Like this one. Did you know the meaning of all the highlighted words? So if you don’t know the meaning of these words, expert advice: Start Praying. 2:17 Now moving on to the others Moving to Text completion & Sentence Equivalence Text Completion is pretty much like your regular “Fill in the blanks” You’ll have to choose the appropriate GRE words and complete the sentences Imagine if you know the meaning of the choices you can guess the synonyms and antonyms and complete the whole thing in a jiffy. 2:50 How many GRE words should I learn for a 320+ score? The entire 3500 GRE words? A 2000 GRE words? 500 GRE words, perhaps? Well, you never know. You need exact data to prove, and that is exactly what you will be getting! Here is the graph with data collected from over 400+ students who have scored a 160+ in their Verbal. As you can see all of them have learnt only about 1000 GRE words and mastered only 500 GRE words, on an average. You might be tempted to ask about the difference between learnt GRE words and mastered GRE words. Learnt is when you know the meaning of the GRE word and its usage. . 3:54 But is it actually that simple? To be honest, No. Every GRE test taker has troubles with GRE words that can be shortlisted into two major problems in GRE words Complicated GRE words & Remembering GRE words. GRE words are not something that we use in our daily vocabulary, maybe in Shashi Tharoor’s. This makes reading the GRE words and using them in your daily a lot more difficult. Now the remembering part of GRE words An average person can only read about 7-8 new GRE words a day on a normal basis and push it to over 25+ GRE words/day if you are an aggressive planner. When you are planning for your GRE, you will have to learn at least 40 - 50 GRE words / day. No Newtonian mathematics involved. Well, actually there are about 3 techniques that can take of the GRE words that are looming over your target score. 4:22 Technique 1: Learning & application Let’s assume that learning a new GRE word is as meeting a new person. Would you consider the person as your friend if you only know his name and where he is from? That is the same with the GRE word. If you only read the GRE words without learning it’s usage, you are bound to forget it. you have just upgraded your relationship with the GRE word, from stranger to acquaintance. But if you get so comfortable with the GRE word that you can use in your speech and writing, that is when you have finally mastering the GRE word. Then again, how can you constantly check your relationship with your GRE words? By learning and testing at regular intervals. Here is something that can help you with that! 5:34 Technique 2: Visual Learning What if someone told you that you can actually learn about 60 GRE words in 60 minutes? Judge him? But quite honestly, you can. That brings us to the next in line, the Visual GRE words learning technique. What is it? Visual Learning is memory enhancement taking that relates a particular concept to a visual element. Like associating the GRE word bright to the Sun. This helps you not learn complicated words faster. Visual memory has a massive storage capacity for object details. It is 60% more powerful than rote learning. How can you use it for GRE words Learning? Lemme show you rather than telling you. What does this picture remind you of? The next technique is a classic old school technique that helps you read GRE words in bulk. Enter, 7:40 Technique 3: Root Word Technique This Word Learning Technique involves a lot to do with the structure of the GRE words. In this technique you will have to split the GRE words and identify the roots. In fact, you can even go as far as to say this technique is the Verbal counterpart of permutations and combinations Kinda easy right? So three techniques down, 1000+ GRE words to go. Are you game? You’ll find answers to following questions from this video:- How many GRE words should you learn to score 160+ in GRE Verbal? What are the high priority gre words that helps to get 160+ in gre verbal Techniques to master gre vocabulary Gre vocabulary tips and techniques to score good in gre verbal What are the 1000 gre words in gre vocabulary that are necessary to remember to score 160+ in gre verbal Is gre vocabulary important to learn to score 160+ in gre verbal? #GREWords #GREVocabulary #GREVerbal







Hi! I have taken the General GRE exam in March 2017 and scored 329/340 with 163 in Verbal and 166 in Quantitative. I will tell you my experience and in general some tips as to how to fare well on the exam. Nevertheless, preparation strategies vary from person to person.If you want to get an idea as to where you stand even before you start your preparation, I would suggest you to take a free mock test online. I would recommend the one offered by Galvanize. It's not a full test, but has one Verbal section and one Quantitative section. You just need to spend an hour and you would get an idea when you check your scores as to where you made mistakes and which concepts you need to learn better. This, in my opinion, embarks your preparation for GRE!The most important thing to do is to first book your test date. Until and unless your test date is booked, you would not get the requisite motivation to start your preparation. That was what I did. I first scheduled my test and then took the mock to see where I stood. I scored 302/340 in the mock test. I was not at all prepared. So the results were as expected. I found out the concepts I needed to study and started working on them.Talking about how much time you need to invest preparing for the test, it is totally dependent on what you do. If you are an engineering student or a mathematics student or someone taking math courses and constantly staying in touch with the subject, I assure you that Quantitative section would be a cakewalk! At the same time, I would like to emphasize that ETS has raised the bars for Quantitative section and it is not as trivial as it once seemed to be (I'm not generalizing anything here; whatever I say is what I opine). If you want to start from scratch and study everything throughly, I'd highly recommend enrolling for some online GRE coaching.You can subscribe for Magoosh as it would prep you up for the toughest questions - questions that are too tough that ETS might not consider asking them- which is a very good thing as you would find the actual test pretty easy! You can take a subscription for three months or six months depending on what is ideal for you and depending on when you have scheduled your test. Do not think of it as a waste of money because in the worst case scenario where you do bad in your first attempt, you might end up wasting more money for your second attempt! So it's okay to spend some money when necessary because it's worth it. :)Practice all the material religiously, and work everyday. Make sure you have the ETS official book with you and also download the Powerprep software from ETS website. Set a target, say, that you would complete your first round of preparation in a month and then take the first test on the Powerprep software. Depending on your score, you would know where you stand. You can then improve your score by focusing more on areas where you lost marks. Take the second test one week before your actual test date after you think you're fully prepared. That test is relatively tougher than the first one. Spend the last one week practicing rigorously.VerbalVocabulary plays a crucial role in Verbal section, but, remember that it is not everything. It contributes to about 20% of your score on verbal section. The most important aspect is practicing comprehensions and text completions. GRE is an exam which you can excel by practicing more and more problems! That's the key to scoring high on GRE. So don't spend too much time simply learning words. Instead, practice more questions and continue learning words. This approach is more helpful.QuantitativeThe key to scoring high on quantitative is practice and practice and practice! Also, remember that the exam would put you under a time pressure. So practice with time and try to do as many questions as you can with minimum number of mistakes. Every question is worth the same score. So focus more on getting questions right than on somehow answering all the questions.Analytical WritingIt would suffice to score above 3.5 in this section, but I would suggest you to spend some time and get a better score. It's not all about getting a reasonable score but it's about getting a decent and deserving score. If you're good at essay writing and arguments, you would hardly need to spend any time for this section. Otherwise, you need to practice writing and the more you practice, the better you get at it. ETS asks questions only from the given pool of essays. So make sure to check them out. I have practiced several topics from the pool of essays and scored 5/6 in this section.There are websites that have collections of GRE preparation books including Kaplan, Baron's, Manhattan, Princeton and old ETS books. So try to get them and practice as much as you can! :)Finally, I would say practice makes your GRE score perfect! I mean it literally, a perfect score of 340 is attainable with practice. :)All the best!PS: I have forgotten to mention this. In order to improve vocabulary on a long-term basis, do study Word Power Made Easy by Nornan Lewis. But this book doesn't cover several GRE words! So please download the app called “Painless GRE”. It has around 4000 words. Once you're done learning them, most of your vocabulary prep is done! :)







The BasicsFirst off, let me assume you haven't completed an Engineering degree in a First-World Anglophone country, because a lot of my advice probably wouldn't apply to you then. I also don't think you'd have any problems scoring 330 as easy as pie because of the way you've been educated, so this post won't apply to you then. If you haven't however, a score of 330+ on the GRE signifies one of two things: You're either exceptionally well-rounded in both the Verbal and the Quantitative aspects of your education, meaning you won't lose more than 10 points aggregate in all your sections combined. There's a few people I know who're this way despite their Third-World upbringing. Hats off to them.Or, as I was, you're talented enough to score 170/170 on only one of your sections, and you've prepared well enough and done what's required on test-day not to lose more than 10 points on your other section. This was me. I knew I would get 169-170 on my Quants all along, it was all about damage limitation on GRE Verbal (which I wasn't very good at) and making sure I didn't squander more than ten points on test day. I succeeded, but not without some serious doubts along the way.So the objective is clear. You've got to avoid losing more than 10 points on test-day, Verbal and Quants combined. Let me talk about how I managed to accomplish that feat and how you can do the same.GRE VerbalFor me, Verbal was far and away the most difficult of all three GRE Sections, simply because of the limitations in my vocabulary and the types of questions that I encountered when I practiced for the GRE. If you're in the same boat, you'll fully understand how preparing for GRE Verbal can sometimes fill you with doubt and depression, because you've simply got no idea about what the right answer choice could be. The way I see it, the most crucial aspect to mastering GRE Verbal is not how much time you spend preparing. It hasn't even got much to do with how many words you know.The most crucial skill on GRE Verbal is Context.What does that mean? Basically, you need to know how the different words in English you're already familiar with can be used in differing contexts to provide alternate meanings. This is how you should inculcate context into your GRE Preparation:First things first. Buy a complete prep book for GRE Verbal. I chose Kaplan GRE Premier, but only because that was the book somebody else recommended to me. Barron's and ETS are more than good enough as well.Go through all the question types, tips and practice questions provided in at least one of these books. Doing so will ingrain the format of the question paper and the probable words you're likely to come across on the day of the test itself. If you make a mistake in answering a question, write that down in a separate booklet, understand why you made that mistake (unknown word, wrong context etc.) and make sure it doesn't happen again.I would also recommend going through all the resources available on the Magoosh website (https://gre.magoosh.com/) as well as the apps they've got for GRE Verbal, available for smartphones. They really helped brush up my vocabulary.I've also covered GRE Verbal Preparation in more detail here:What can I do to improve my verbal score in the GRE from 153 to 160+?GRE QuantsI didn't need to spend a lot of time preparing for the Quantitative Section of the GRE, partly because it was just 10th Grade Math, and partly because I knew I had more pressing issues to deal with a.k.a Verbal. But if you feel like you need to do better in Quant, there's really no substitute for practice. The books that I've mentioned previously have all got chapters devoted to GRE Quants as well, so getting questions to practice with shouldn't be a problem. Work on the mathematical concepts that you'll need for the test, improve your time management skills, and you'll be fine.Analytical WritingAgain, AWA wasn't especially relevant to my GRE Preparation since I'm going to be applying for an MS in an Engineering discipline, so anything above 4.0/6.0 was fine by me. There are two kinds of essays you'll have to write on test-day, 30 minutes each, with slightly different writing styles. The best way to improve your essay writing skills is to read the sample essays that're given in your prep books, and practice using similar words when you write your own pieces. This goes without saying, but please make sure your essays are devoid of any grammatical/spelling mistakes, as those kinds of errors tend to be looked upon very poorly. Lastly, here's an here's an extensive guide written by the lads over at CrunchPrep on scoring 330+ on your GRE.Hope this helps :)







GRE is not a test of your intelligence. It's more about how well you are able to hack the exam pattern and temperament.To go from 320 or 325 to 330/330+ makes all the difference and every point needs to be earned.Verbal: Assuming most people appearing for GRE from India are engineers or atleast from STEM background, Verbal gives nightmares to everyone. Blame it on our schools who taught us to mug up answers in English.Vocab: Don't be lazy about Vocab! It pays rich dividends. Good vocab prep means Sentence Equivalence and Text Completions part done so 8/20 questions taken care of. It helps tremendously in improving AWA quality, understanding RCs and TOEFL writing too. Start slowly and build up from there. Start with 333 High frequency word list, then move on to 800 word list, then 2000 and so on. 10 days prior to GRE focus on 800 word list. It helps the most. (If you are preparing for GRE under severe time constraints, Barron’s800 word list is your saviour). 90% of words on my GRE were from list and I was able to solve all questions by process of elimination because I knew all options or all but one in worst case scenario. There are several apps& websites available like : Magoosh Flashcards, Quizlet, Memrise etc. They have different formats. Pick what suits you the best. My personal favourite was Memrise because reviewing words already learnt is as important if not more as compared to learning new words. Set short targets such learning 20 new words.Reading Comprehensions: pace yourself well while reading. First reading should be mostly skimming through the text. If you don't understand something don't fret. You don't need to understand the whole passage to crack it. Don't trust instincts/gut feeling/memory either. Read every option and verify with relevant parts of passage. (Paraphrasing may help if you are really quick at reading). GRE tries to trick you by twisting/omitting/adding usually a word in the options which isn't in the passage. Thumbrule: eliminate any negative/out of context/ controversial options. More the practice and mock tests, better will be your RCs part.Quant:Manhattan 5 pound is a great book to start off and tackle questions of varying difficulty. Note: Don't skip Advance Quant part. Due to adaptive nature of tests you may get difficult questions in 2nd quant so it's a good idea to get used to it.How to avoid silly mistakes? By accepting them. Whenever I made a mistake in a mock test, instead of classifying under the broad banner of silly mistakes, I would write it down. Example “I calculated % instead of %change” etc.Utilise all 35 mins. Recheck every answer, using substitution or something. It really helps to eliminate silly mistakes.AWA: Usually we just have to clear a cut off for AWA.Read sample essays initially.Practice writing under timed conditions so you know how to manage those 30 mins.Leave 4–5 mins at end for proofreading twice. We tend to ignore spelling mistakes during first reading.General:Practice a lot of mocks with timed conditions so you are accustomed to various exam formats (number and sequence of verbal and quant sections)Keep a track of progress and keep reviewing mistakes.GRE is a test of temperament. Practice sitting in a chair in front of a computer and keeping your brain in full concentration mode for 4 hours at a stretch!Cheers! All the best!







After  making up your mind for masters degree abroad, the next thing to do to  make your dream come true, is to prepare for GRE. Unless and until you  are an expert in quantitative methods and English verbal skills, you  need GRE practice and preparation to excel the exam with flying colors.  Practice makes you comfortable and known to the exam pattern and course.  It is necessary for all, but compulsorily important to students those  native speaking language is not English.Although the test papers maybe an easy  task for students who have done enough practice, but not first time  attempts directly at the exam time it could be taxing! GRE undergoes  changes in its question papers every year which makes it highly  competitive and a challenge to score higher. There is a huge competition  among thousands of students who appear for GRE test papers. Hence it is utmost important to be well-prepared.GRE (Graduate Record Examination) scores  are required by graduate schools of English speaking countries like  Australia, UK, US and others for giving admission to international  students in various academic graduate level programs. This test  evaluates skills of the students on the basis of three sections:  1. Analytical writing  2. Verbal reasoning  3. Quantitative reasoningIn computer-based test format ‘unscored’ and ‘research’ sections are also included; the scores are not shown on the test.Basic Tips to Prepare for GRE and Test Papers:Make a strategy and follow it  religiously to study regularly for each section. Every section of GRE is  unique, thus require diverse preparation.Be thorough with analytical writing.  This section measures candidates’ focus, intelligence for discussion and  their ability to put forth complex ideas with suitable examples. To  gain mastery over analytical skills, read a lot especially articles on  diverse topics and try to analyze them with varied perspectives.Keep your knowledge bank updated. Be  aware of national and international important happenings and events.  Read regular national dailies and magazines that contain information of  latest occurrences of the world. Follow televisions and internet for the  same.Practice for quantitative reasoning.  This section evaluates candidates’ skills to study and interpret the  quantitative issues and how they can use their mathematical skills to  solve them. Subjects like geometry, algebra, arithmetic, probability and  statistics are included. Practice and clarity of concepts can make you  score higher.Get complete hold of verbal reasoning  section by prior practice. This section examines the ability of the  aspirants to comprehend what they have read and how they draw and  investigate conclusions out of it. Read as much as you can English  language materials. Also analyze and write as much as you can.To prepare for GRE select the  preparation books with care. The books should cover all relevant topics  of each and every section of the exam. You can also download study  material from government’s GRE website. Downloading software like  POWERPREP II would be of great help to get acquainted with the tests in  terms of time, questions test design, on-screen calculator and testing  software.Before starting the exam read the questions carefully, understand what answer is required and then start answering.







Here’s how I scored 330+ with a 3 week preparation plan!It is important to understand that the GRE is very different as compared to the other exams we are used to giving, talking from an Indian’s perspective. Blind hard work will not serve any purpose and sometimes will be counterproductive.ETS (the company that conducts the GRE) wants to convince you that your score is a measure of how good you are at ‘critical thinking’, but in reality it is only a measure of how good you are at giving the GRE. So, fortunately for us, the more you practise in the correct way, the better you become at giving the GRE.The Correct Way (in my experience) :Quality > Quantity. Always. Please do not spend 10+ hours a day mechanically solving problems and forgetting about them as you move forward. This will cause you to plateau at a certain skill level. The key is small incremental improvements.For me, the ideal way was a simple 3 step process :1.	Solve problems in small sets, around 20(+5 || -5) questions per set.2.	Check your answers. See the solutions, understand them thoroughly.3.	After checking all, recap the questions you got wrong, why, and what you learnt from them. This is extremely important.Let’s jump into the schedule now, shall we?Pre-prep phase (1 week) :Okay, I lied, it’s not really 3 weeks, but this pre-prep phase won’t take more than two hours of your time per day, and what’s more, you can easily do this while you eat or just before sleeping.What is to be done? Words, Words and more Words.Spend this week learning the words from the following apps :1.	Barron’s 11002.	Magoosh Flash Cards (around 1000 words)3.	Manhattan Essential Words (around 500 words)Vocabulary is essential to understanding the Reading Comprehensions as well as the sentence completions, so please complete this before moving ahead!Week 1 :Congratulations! The boring part is done. This week, let’s do :1.	4 Practice Tests2.	Practise each type of question in isolation. For example, do 20 Text Completions in one set. This will help you to identify weaknesses to work on.3.	Brush up all the shortcuts and maths formulae that you encounter.(Online Magoosh article exists)Week 2 :This week, let’s move forward with :1.	6 Practice Tests.2.	Do mixed practice sets now (All types of problems together), to simulate the actual GRE scenario.3.	Strictly time your tests and practice sets. Keep 5 minutes per section as a buffer. Identify which type of questions you are slow at. Work on them.Week 3 :Buckle up, this is your final lap :1.	8 practice tests.2.	Start reading AWA essays online, as well as general structuring tips. A lot of video material is available online. Practise a few essays if necessary.3.	Revise the Vocabulary words and mathematical formulae.At the end of this schedule, you should be ready to face the GRE. So be confident, sleep well before the paper and ohh, don’t forget to carry a jacket. It’s freezing in there.Thanks for reading! Please do upvote if this helped you.







ure-Shot success planGRE verbal is not like GRE Quant. Unlike GRE Quant, you need to give yourself as much time as possible to acquire the required reading skills.Resources Required• Access to reading resources mentioned above• GRE Official Guide• Subscription to Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• A notebook (Yes, you will need it)• Some sticky notesThe plan• Read an article every day from the opinion pages from the above mentioned resources• Focus on the usage of support signals, contrast signals, causal signals, concession signal and expounding signals• Make a list of all the signals you encounter and make notes on their usages• Make logical predictions whenever you encounter these signals and read further to check if you were correct• Make a note of all the words you encounter and learn their meanings as used in the context• Write down the words (just the words) on sticky notes and stick them in your study area. These notes should remain posted till the time you are done with your GRE. When you see these words every day you recall the words and your familiarity with these words increases• After you are almost 15 days through, start taking small Text Completion tests available on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes• Once you feel that you are make good enough progress with the understanding of the text, you are in a position to take some Reading Comprehension practice tests on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes. Make a note of the same. Do not commit the same errors• You must be taking a Reading Comprehension and Text Completion test every day. You must have developed ample reading skills by the end of 45 days• Your vocabulary must have also strengthened by now• Start practicing some Sentence Equivalence questions on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes. Make a note of the same. Do not commit the same errors• You have done all the above and you have almost completed 60 days of your prep• Now try your hand on the official content. Go through the Official Guide and finish all the practice questions• Try those questions once again which you got wrong in the first attempt• Note down all the words that you are not familiar with• Keep working on all the words that you encounter in the Official Guide as these are the words that you will find on the GRE• Take all GRE Verbal Sectional Tests available on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Take necessary corrective actions and practice those areas where you are unable to scoreFollow this process religiously and give yourself almost 3 months; you will see that you are developing your skills and the most convoluted questions appear very easy.Subscribe to any of our convenient subscriptions plans to unleash the true power of GRE Prep.Remember, we here at TCY are committed to your success.







I got 336 on my GRE within 20 days, (V166 Q170) and I can talk about how I got it here. I started at around 320 from my first mock test, and obviously GRE preparation should usually depend on the individuals, to be more specific, their backgrounds, their goals, and sometimes their time budget, but generally, it consists of the following phases. I’ll focus less on selecting books and softwares and instead talk more on general strategy and time allocation:1.Self-assessment & Planning (1–2 weeks): Make a target score based on your grad school goals. Then take a few diagnostic tests to see where you’re at. Identify areas you need to work on: vocabulary, reading, or certain math areas you’ve already forgotten about, and based on your goal and current level, you can figure out how much time you need to work on improvement.2. Practice & Improvement (2–10+ weeks): It really depends on your schedule. Most people I know spend 1–3 months studying for GRE, and after the first phase, you now should have a better idea how much time you need to work on GRE. Now that you’ve identified areas you need work on, start working on them relentlessly and making progress. For this Phase I have generally 4 tips:Focus. The famous 80/20 Rule[1] states that roughly 80% of your outcomes come from 20% of your inputs. This applies to GRE as well. There will be areas on GRE where you can most quickly improve. When the time is limited, you need to focus on those areas to make the most progress. Take a few mock tests and find those spots, and work on them relentlessly.Make mistakes. Don’t worry about them at all. It is a good thing to find yourself making mistakes when you’re practicing than you do on the real test. When you practice, you want to expose all the possible ways you make mistakes, and then find ways to avoid them. The reality is, aside from the vocabulary, GRE hardly covers anything that esoteric. In many cases, it’s the silly mistakes you make that really keeps you from getting your dream score. Learning how to avoid those mistakes can allow you to improve quickly. You just need to identify them first, by making them.Analyze. Don’t just practice questions after questions. Think about them. Find patterns, find how you get them wrong, and find quicker ways to solve these questions. At the end of the day, it’s not the quantity of questions that you practiced on that matters the most, it’s how you treat them. Don’t just focus on getting the questions right, focus on how to get better.Consolidate. After you’ve practiced, made mistakes, and analyzed them, now it’s time to consolidate your takeaways. Make yourself a list of actions you can take during the actual test to help yourself perform better. Take a good look at them before the next time you practice, and make a final list before you take the real test to keep yourself reminded of these takeaways.Many of my friends have asked me how I got the score I have. Frankly this is it. Now I’m building Gregory to help people do these things automatically. I’d be happy to hear any thoughts/feedback on it.3. Mock Tests (1–2 Weeks): Although you have taken the diagnostic tests and have practiced for weeks by the time you enter this phase, it’s now time to get ready for the real test. Try to find the best pace for yourself, and figure out the common errors you tend to make to avoid losing points to silly mistakes. This is especially important for the math section. Before the test, put together a list of actionable items to remind you of things you tend to overlook during the real test and try to avoid them.These are my advice for any test takers, feel free to reach out or leave a comment for any questions.Footnotes[1] What Is The 80/20 Rule And Why It Will Change Your Life







Ideally,If you are planning for fall intake, then start preparing from/ after 5th semester (December). You will have winter vacations for roughly 1 month, make most of it. And try to appear by/ during 6th semester (April) itself.The idea is that you won’t be very busy during this time as many colleges in India have cultural/ technical/ youth festivals, Industrial visits etc going on, so environment is very much chilled out. Also the work load is less as you are still not looking for jobs there is no tension whatsoever regarding campus placements, final year projects etc.This is by far the best time to study/ prepare and appear for GRE and TOFEL.Bonus: If you end up scoring less than what you were expecting, you will still have couple of month in place to re-appear for the exam.Practically,You should start with your preparation after 6th semester (June) and make full use of summer vacation as well as initial 2 months of 7th semester.Most universities start accepting applications from October or November, so make it a point to appear for GRE/ TOFEL by October it self. This will give you ample time to do all other documentation related work.Try to get done with both the exams as soon as possible.Cheers! :)







Well,If you are already thinking about it, then you should gear up and start preparing for GRE and TOEFL.I am conducting GRE quants and verbal training for last 3 years now, I have seen students from various backgrounds preparing for exams.Engineering students prepare for the exam during their 3rd year of engineering i.e 5th semester. But I have an opinion of my own, any student from whichever branch of engineering should start preparing from the 2nd year of engineering.During your 2nd year, you have less work from university and also have fewer commitments. You can prepare slowly with your own pace and practice as much as possible.This is beneficial for your other exams as well, like CAT, GMAT, CET etc. even if you are not planning for Higher studies abroad, preparing for GRE and TOEFL drastically improves your English Vocabulary and Speaking skills which are must for Jobs as well.Overall, to sum up, the answer, Prepare for GRE in 2nd Year, appear in 3rd-year winter, even if you fail to secure great GRE score in 1st Attempt, you can re-appear for exams during 3rd-year summer break.I advise TOEFL students to appear for TOEFL just 6 to 7 months before they are planning to apply.







May to July of the one year less than you want to go abroad or to start your session.likeif your last sem is ending in 2018 and want to start in same year then in August of 2017.Because it takes approximately 8–10 months to get proper things done and some want you to first complete your bachelors and apply then so if you are completing your degree in 2017 then you are eligible for 2018 batch whose admissions will start from early october to late January (few choices), so that means give GRE and other tests by May to july of same year.So two options ,Be early, (have 3–6 months to prepare)Be On time (have about 8–12 months to prepare)If this confuses you check my similar answers.Hope it helps :D .







If you are planning to go in Fall semester, say 2017, then start preparing from July 2016. Give GRE exam in end of October 2016, TOEFL in next 15 days so let us assume mid Nov 2016. You will have all results till start of Dec 2016, till then prepare your SOP, resume and transcripts. APply to universities till end of Jan 2017. Wait for results till April 2017. Apply for Visa in May, give visa interview in June 2017, get you tickets done in June, Fly in July or August!







engineering students prefer to take GRE in their third year in the month of March or August as GRE requires to be free and students are usually free in the third year .In case of TOEFL, one can take the exam in September as people are done with their GRE and have no other Academic commitments.remember ,GRE Scores are valid till 5 years and TOEFL scores are valid till 2 yearsfor more information you can refer to the article below.When Should One Take The GRE - GRE Preparation Guide







It is important to remember that GRE scores are valid for 5 years and TOEFL scores are valid for 2 years. If you are planning to apply to Universities it is important you start preparing at least 6–8 months ahead of application deadlines (application deadlines are different for different universities). You should keep adequate time for re-attempts if necessary.For more information on GRE read this blog and if you’re looking for teachers who can help you ace the test, visit Pedagoge.







In Canada only the Top Ranked Universities require GRE for their MS/PhD/MBA programs. Most of the average Universities ask simply for English Language test TOEFL/IELTS.The Canadian universities are less competitive and have extreme cold weather conditions which makes them difficult to attract international students so most of them won't ask for GRE score.List of Canadian Universities without GRE Score requirementHere is the list of good universities in Canada without GRE for MS and Phd programs. SinceBrock University2. Carleton University3. Concordia University4. Kwantlen Polytechnic University5. Lakehead University6. Laurentian University7. Laval University8. Memorial University of Newfoundland9. Royal Roads University10. Trent University11. University of Lethbridge12. University of Manitoba13. University of New Brunswick14. University of Northern British Columbia15. University of Ontario Institute of Technology16. University of Prince Edward Island17. University of Regina18. University of the Fraser Valley19. University of WinnipegHere is the List of Canadian Universities accepting GRE scores for MBA courses.University NameCampusesBrock UniversitySt. CatharinesCape Breton UniversitySydney (Community Economic Development)Carleton UniversityOttawaConcordia UniversityMontrealDalhousie UniversityHalifax (MBA in Financial Services)HEC MontrealMontrealIvey Business SchoolTorontoLakehead UniversityThunder BayMcGill UniversityMontrealMcMaster UniversityHamiltonQueens University School of BusinessKingstonSt. Mary's UniversityHalifaxThompson Rivers UniversityKamloopsUniversity of AlbertaEdmontonUniversity of British ColumbiaVancouverUniversity of CalgaryCalgaryUniversity of New BrunswickFrederictonUniversity of QuebecRimouskiUniversity Canada WestVancouverUniversity of ManitobaWinnipegUniversity of New BrunswickSaint JohnUniversity of Ontario Institute of TechnologyOshawaUniversity of OttawaOttawaUniversity of TorontoTorontoUniversity of VictoriaVictoriaUniversity of Western OntarioLondonWilfrid Laurier UniversityWaterlooYork UniversityTorontoMBA Programs that Accept theIt is always advisable to Look for Public Canadian Universities as they are funded by the Government and have much lesser fee structure than the Private Universities.List of Canada’s Province (State) wise Top most Public UniversitiesOntarioUniversity of TorontoYork UniversityUniversity of WaterlooUniversity of WindsorRyerson UniversityQueen’s UniversityMcMaster UniversityUniversity of Western OntarioUniversity of GuelphUniversity of Ontario Institute of TechnologyCarleton UniversityUniversity of OttawaBrock UniversityLakehead UniversityLaurentian UniversityBritish ColumbiaUniversity of British ColumbiaUniversity of VictoriaSimon Fraser UniversityRoyal Roads UniversityCapilano UniversityThompson Rivers UniversityUniversity of the Fraser ValleyVancouver Island UniversityAlbertaUniversity of AlbertaUniversity of CalgaryUniversity of LethbridgeSaskatchewanUniversity of SaskatchewanUniversity of ReginaManitobaUniversity of ManitobaUniversity of WinnipegQuebecUniversity of MontrealMcGill UniversityConcordia UniversityUniversity of QuebecBishop's UniversityAll the Best for your Canadian University Hunt!They say for Canada~ “You can't buy Happiness, but you can stay in Canada and that's pretty much the same thing!”







Most of the institutions in canada asks for GRE and IELTS/TOEFL scores. But a really good GRE score doesn't insure your admission in the top tier universities. They primarily looks for a good profile overall, which includes your social awareness, extra-curricular activities, projects, work experience and last and the most important thing is your SOP and recommendation letters. your SOP is the only thing which describes you. Hence, be very descriptive about it. google out some good SOP templates you will get an idea. Preparing and applying early can give you an edge over others.Also you can take help from a professional but be aware of organizations :)Good luck, prepare hard and wish you all the best.







GRE exam/syllabus is always the same for all kind of students of different branches,fields,of any age(whether a person is a graduate,post graduate or has a working experience(at whatsoever designation),etc.GRE is required for masters or PhD.( in case you don't know,extra info) GMAT- masters (for MBA) TOEFL-bachelor's,masters IELTS-bachelor's masters PTE-bachelor's ,masters****Some programs or universities ask for GRE score, some doesn't. Generally, GRE score is required if you are applying to any STEM ( Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics ) program or Business Studies( MBA ).GRE is a computer based test type.Test content- 1-VERBAL REASONING ( reading comprehension,text completion,sentence equivalence)( 20 ques each in 2 sections-30 min each)Reading comprehension - 8-9 short reading passages of 1 para long & will have 1 or 2 questions related to them. There will be 1-2 long reading passages per test which will have 3+ questions associated with them. Questions are multiple choice questions,you are required to choose either single or multiple correct answers as per asked.Text completion- there will be 1,2 or 3 blanks need to fill in. 1 blank- 5 choices to pick from 2 or 3 blanks- each has 3 choices to pick from.Sentence equivalence- you are supposed to select 2 answer choices that best complete a sentence & provide similar meaning/synonyms.2- QUANTITATIVE REASONING( 20 questions each in 2 sections-35 min each)Quantitative comparisonMultiple choice questions with either one option or more than one optionNumeric entry questions.3-ANALYTICAL WRITING ASSESSMENT (AWA)1 one logical argument-an argument is given you have to either write for it or write against it. 2- One critical issue-a topic is given you have to write an essay.( awa - no options are given, 30 min each)Test duration- 3 hours 45 minsTest scores- 340 (quantitative+verbal), awa(0-6), good score 315+ considered.Test scores validity- 5 yearsOfficial scores recieved- online 10-15 days after your test date.Test fees- US $ 195Test conducted- ETS PrometricWebsite of exam conductors- www.ets.org/greWhen is test conducted?- on weekdays throughout the year.Free score reporting at the time of exam - any 4 universities of your choice.I hope I covered enough information incase you need more info or I've forgotten something,do let me know! :)







Hey Redwan! Thanks for the A2A!Before I start with this answer, I would like to be very straightforward about this that the GRE has no limits when it comes to the amount of types or questions that might come under various topics. But yes, according to most trends till now, there are 3 main segments which can be further subdivided into various topics as below.Analytical Writing : This section accounts for just 6 marks out of the total 340. The small section isn't really “small” when it comes to strength or difficulty of the question. In the first question, the candidate is normally asked to discuss an issue presented in hand. In the second question, the candidate is asked to discuss an argument and present different scenarios according to their analytical ability. In this section, the knowledge of the candidate is of zero significance and all of the marks are awarded on the basis of the Quality of Analysis of the problem.Verbal Reasoning : The verbal reasoning section accounts for a major chunk of the general test. This section generally has 3 parts : Reading Comprehension, Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence.- The Reading Comprehension is basically the major section as it accounts for about 50–55% of the Verbal Section. The easiest trick to crack this sub-section is developing the ability to prioritise the important information from the unimportant and irrelevant information. This helps a lot since the questions asked are not specified to a particular sentence or paragraph of the content but is on the general wide sense of it.- In the Text Completion sub section, one is expected to understand the inference of the sentence that is due and fill in a phase or words to make sure the sentence makes sense, is grammatically correct and converges to general meaning of it.- The Sentence Equivalence section tests if you can understand and produce two similar sentences, different in construction but having the same inference in general. This asks you to select multiple words from the options that give the same final conclusion.Here is a list of TOPICS that generally need to be covered from a syllabus point of view :a) Nouns, Pronouns, Adjectives etc.b) Verbs c) Tensed) Subject Verb Agreemente) Sentence ParallelismQuantitative Reasoning : Another Math-based vast section of GRE which requires a good sound knowledge of High School mathematics and a LOT OF PRACTISE to crack. There are generally 4 sub-sections in this one - Quantitative Comparison, Single-Choice questions, Multiple-Choice Questions and Numerical Questions. This section requires use of a calculator which is provided. The main TOPICS that need special attention are :a) Basic Mathematic Formulasb) Numbersc) Operationsd) Percentage, Ratios and Proportionse) Profit and Lossf) Interests - Simple & Compoundg) Distance, Speed, Timeh) Permutations and Combinationsi) Equationsj) Set theory and Statsk) Probabilityl) Geometrym) Areas and Volumes.This is pretty much it. Please note that all the information above is out of my own rough memory and I have tried covering most if not all the topics. I highly recommend you get the GRE Guide and related books to give you a better idea as this post is merely a go to and the books will be the ultimate helpers and guides.Just an FYI, I do work for an Ed-Tech firm based out of New Delhi, India which is aimed at building awesome careers abroad! Check us out at http://www.leverageedu.comIf you want to take this discussion further forward or you want any help regarding your career, feel free to reach me out at samrat@leverageedu.com







Universities look at a candidates complete profile. Let’s take your case as an example since you have done a great job in providing most of your details. What do universities look at when evaluating a profile:Quantitative scores: Grades, GRE scores etc. Your latest grade, 67% in BE, is an average score. Your GRE score, all sections are on the lower side. For MS in any engineering or science program, universities place importance on Quants, then AW, then verbal. So score above 163–165 on Quants, at least 4.0 on AW and above the minimum required for verbal (which should be listed on the universities website) or at the very least 1 standard deviation below the average (some universities list average scores instead of minimum). I recommend reading GRE Scores - The Good, Bad and Ugly for in depth insights on GRE scores.Ranking of your bachelor’s university: A 60% in IIT is valued much more than 90% in a Sido Kanhu Murmu University type university.SOP: This is the heart of your application. A well written statement can get you into your top choice university. A well-thought out SOP has the following qualities:Unique. It has to be about you. Your story, your goals, your personality should shine through, reasons why you want to apply to this particular university etc. Uniqueness gives rise to…Authenticity. Be genuine. Don’t make up stories or challenges you overcame. Authenticity also comes from…Depth. When thinking about your goals, the reasons you want to apply to a university, focus on depth. The more you think about reasons for each and every decision, the more authentic it will be. Keep asking yourself questions. Don’t settle on an answer till you’re satisfied with it. Get to the point where no one can break through your reasoning for any decision. With depth comes…Specifics. Answer each question with details. If you can’t answer a question, research. Find out why you want to go to a particular university or why you want to apply to a particular degree. Write out specifics in…Simple, effective language. There’s no need for eloquent literature or Shakespearean English. Keep it simple, clear and easily understandable while also being…To the point. Don’t beat around the bush. Write crisp sentences, get your point across quickly and move on to the next point.I have a detailed blog post about the must haves in your statement of purpose.LOR: Just like a restaurant has to have great reviews before you eat there, so do you to get into a good university. It seems that you have this covered.With all this in mind (and without reading your SOP), I think USF, ASU and Northeastern are safe choices. You’re on the borderline for UF and UTD.Good luck!Edit:Additionally, a score of 302 for your GRE is on the lower side. Your best bet is to increase your GRE scores above 310 or 315.I’ve captured this sentiment in depth here! Enjoy!







Ruili, both the verbal and quantitative GRE scores have a range from 130 to 170 - average 150. So the combined average is 300. Thus 302 is a shade above average. In my opinion it would not, by itself, gain you entry to a good school for a Master's in CS. Sorry!  But are you not rather late for admission in the Fall of 2015? Best wishes.On another point which applies to many QUORA questions, see below on the confidentiality of GRE scores. All GRE score users should be aware of the confidential nature of the scores and agree to maintain their confidentiality. Institutional policies should be developed to ensure that confidentiality is maintained. For example, GRE scores should not be placed on documents sent outside the institution.







Thanks for A2AA GRE score of 302 can take you places...maybe not the Ivy Leagues and the top 10 grad-schools, but places nonetheless!What Universities Can I Target with GRE: 300-310?To start with, here are a few of the ‘achievable’ universities you can target with a GRE score in the range of 300-310:Texas A&M KingsvilleSUNY BuffaloSUNY Stony BrookUT-DallasUT-ArlingtonSJSUThe University of Louisiana - LafayetteIllinois Institute of Technology - ChicagoRochester Institute of TechnologyUniversity of HoustonDownload GRE Cutoff scores for top 35 US Universities hereBut does this mean you can’t target the TOP 25 with your score?GRE score requirements are not concrete, and there are several instances of students who land above-average or top admits, despite a GRE score not even close to the university average score of admitted students. We’ll analyze a few of those profiles at the end, so if that’s what you’re looking for, just scroll to the bottom of the answer!Let’s now find out how good a 300-310 GRE score is in terms of both percentiles and required GRE scores of some popular programs.Is 302 a Good Score?The truth is, the universities don’t look at your total GRE score, but the individual scores obtained in the Verbal, Quant, and even the AWA section - though it’s marked separately. Hence, how good your score is, depends on these factors:Your Verbal & Quants percentile scoresThe GRE score required for that program/university.Checkout our eBOOK on 5 Techniques to score 170 in QuantsLet’s talk percentiles. Percentiles are a measure of what percentage of other GRE takers have a score lower than you. Hence, the higher your percentile, the better your chances!ETS, the organization that conducts the GRE calculates percentiles separately for Verbal, Quant, and AWA.As you mentioned, you have a 144 and 158 on your Verbal and Quants section respectively.Take a look at your individual score percentiles below (source: ETS)Decoding the Data - What matters more for you?Broadly speaking you need a higher score on the section more closely related to your field. STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics) Courses like Computer Science, in your case, place more emphasis on a higher Quants percentile whereas Ph.D. courses in thesis-based subjects often require a higher verbal score!Noticed how the Verbal percentiles are higher than Quant percentiles throughout?The difference between verbal and quants scores is especially more pronounced in countries such as India where more students score better in the Quants section owing to a higher priority given to developing mathematical skills coupled with the engineering background that most test-takers share! Thus, to get a higher Quants percentile, you’d need a higher Quants score than Verbal!Aiming for a high Quants Score? Then Download GRE Quant Formula Book for a perfect 170 ScoreWhat is a Good Percentile?Roughly speaking, any score above the 50% mark is considered good, with a percentile above 70% considered excellent!This means, a score of 151 or more on Verbal and 153 or more in Quant is considered good. Anything below that and it means that most test-takers scored higher than you.Given the fact that your Quants score is 158, and you’re applying to a STEM course, you’re already at an advantage - with your score being higher than almost 70% of test takers!Now, coming to what you really wanted to know…What is the BEST you can target with your score?Your admits are only as good as your profile is - of which your GRE is JUST one part!The internet is jam-packed with the score requirements of universities and the average GRE scores of students admitted.But does that mean that these boundaries are set in stone? Definitely not!There are several instances of students who land above-average or top admits, despite a GRE score that’s even close to the average score of admitted students.You can also get into some very prestigious universities by applying to niche courses, or having skills that aren’t really commonplace. Applying to universities with a large intake like say, SJSU or USC helps too!So what else do the universities consider? Your CGPA, Resume (your academic credentials, work experience, internships, and paper publications), SOP and LORs, to name some!Want to evaluate your profile? Evaluate hereTo illustrate the above, let's take a look at 3 students with very different profiles and career goals who enrolled for admission counseling at GREedge, with GRE scores between 300-305, AND the admits they got.Profile 1:Arushi Patro:Texas A&M University College Station (Ranked #14 among Top US Universities)MS in Electrical Engineering_________________________GRE Score: 301 (Quant: 153, Verbal: 148, AWA: 3.5)College GPA: 8.8TOEFL: 105 / 120Work Experience: 0Internships/Training: Yes (Industrial training at Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) on telecom infrastructure & broadband networking)Additional Profile Positives: Was the student coordinator at the International Conference on Microelectronics, Electromagnetics, and Telecommunication (ICMEET)With the average GRE score of students at TAMU being 316 (V: 152, Q: 164), how did Arushi manage to get accepted with a score of 301?Here’s taking a look at her profile positives:Her GPA and TOEFL scores definitely worked in her favor, as did her training at BSNL and work as a student coordinator at ICMEET (in capacities directly related to her chosen MS course)Along with this, proper planning of her admission process and a strong SOP demonstrating her interest to shine in the field of electrical engineering gave her profile the final push it needed to obtain an admit!How to write a winning SOP? Checkout hereProfile 2:Rishabh Bhardwaj:Northeastern University (Ranked #37 among Top US Universities)MS in Engineering Management (Departement of Mechanical Engineering)_________________________GRE Score: 303 (Quant: 157, Verbal: 146, AWA: 3)College GPA: 7.38IELTS: 7.5 band overallWork Experience: Trainee at ITC (Worked on Industrial Management of Tobacco Processing by Implementing Inventory Control)Additional Profile Positives:Worked on developing a MATLAB simulation for speed control of a motor using fuzzy logicWorked independently on implementing an ‘Object Sorting Mechanism’ using ArduinoEarned certifications in LabVIEW and Embedded SystemsNow, despite a GRE score of 303, and an average GPA, he was able to get into a highly competitive stream at one of the Top 50 universities.Once again, relevant training, certifications and niche skills like knowledge of using the Arduino computing platform were profile positives that helped him secure his admit.A strong SOP and a perfectly planned admissions timeline helped too!Profile 3:Ravindra:Northeastern University (Ranked #37 among Top US Universities)MS in MIS (Management Information Systems)_________________________GRE Score: 303 (Quant: 161, Verbal: 142, AWA: 3)College GPA: 5.78 (13 backlogs)TOEFL: 80 / 120If you’re thinking how he possibly managed to get accepted to NEU, well, there’s a lot more to Ravindra than his scores!Here’s a sneak peek into the positives his profile had!Work Experience:Worked in a newspaper and magazine business, managing the distribution of magazines and articles, handling the company’s accounts, and overseeing the work done by employees, all of which helped him develop strong skills in management, conflict resolution & communication.Completed a PG certification in Java to develop expertise in RDBMS, MySQL, Core and Advanced Java, Spring, Hibernate, PHP, and C++, among other programming languages.Joined a startup as a PHP coder where he developed a website for users to sell scrap materials and other products to be recycled, completely online. This helped him garner experience in website development and build expertise in technologies such as PHP and MySQLThese are pretty enterprising ventures for a student to take on, and the admissions council too felt the same way.Proper presentation of your skills and profile positives on your Statement of Purpose can go a long way in helping you overcome the weaknesses in your profile.Of course, all this translated into multiple MS admits to the stream of choice!Making the best of what you’ve got:To sum it all up, your GRE score of 302 can do much more for you than you thought.If retaking your GRE is not an option, there are a lot of other things you can do to bolster your chances of getting to your dream universities!Work on building your strengths in other aspects of your profile, go get that certification you’ve always wanted, take up an internship in your field of interest - all of these can really add up and give your profile a boost!Shortlist your favorite universities well in advance and do some research about the kind of students they’re looking for, and apply to those that you feel are the best fit for your profile!Download our eBOOK on The SELECT Strategy to Shortlist UniversitiesLastly, don’t forget to document all that you’ve done in your resume and SOPs, along with telling the universities just how much you deserve an admit given your interests & career aspirations!Here’s wishing you the very best with your applications and I hope you get the admits you’ve always wanted!







Have put the GRE scores of different students who recently got admitted in USA universities who has less than 315 GRE scores, Reference was taken from going through the interviews of current students from ConnectBud BlogWebsite: ConnectBud(Dedicated to help ONE Million Students by 2020!)Wilmington University: 287Oakland University, Michigan: 290California State University, Sacramento:293California State University, Long Beach:293Illinois State University, Chicago:293Texas A&M University, Corpus Christi:293Texas A&M University, Kingsville:293Texas University, San Marcos: 298University of Houston, California State University, University of Tampa, University of Florida,New Jersey Institute of Technology:300







A Score above 325 can get you into Excellent universities. 315 - 325 will get admission from above average US Universities. 300-315 Score for Average Universities. Most of the universities don't mention the GRE Cut off scores except a few. Check university websites for information. Having above Cut off limit won't guarantee admission.Follow the below table to know the universities suitable for your GRE Profile.Revised GRE Universities for GRE > 300US Universities for GRE Score Range 301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308Texas Tech University www.ttu.edu, Wayne State University www.wayne.edu, California State University, Sacramento www.csus.edu, Missouri State University www.missouristate.edu, New Mexico State University www.nmsu.edu, North Dakota State University www.ndsu.edu, University of Texas-Arlington www.uta.edu, Clarkson University www.clarkson.edu, Wright State University www.wright.edu, University of Tennessee Chattanooga www.utc.edu, University of Tulsa www.utulsa.edu, Portland state university www.pdx.edu, University of Vermont www.uvm.edu Baylor University, Texas www.baylor.edu Villanova University www.villanova.edu University of Tampa www.utampa.edu Louisiana Tech. University www.latech.edu New Jersey Institute of Technology www.njit.edu Idaho State University www.isu.edu Wichita State University www.wichita.edu University of Mississippi www.olemiss.edu Northeastern University www.northeastern.edu Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville www.siue.edu University of Alaska- Fairbanks www.uaf.edu Pace University, NY www.pace.edu Wright State University www.wright.edu Chicago State University www.csu.edu South Dakota State University www.sdsu.edu East Carolina University www.ecu.edu University of North Texas www.unt.edu SUNY Institute of Technology www.sunyit.edu University of Missouri at St Louis www.umsl.eduUniversity of Northern Iowa www.uni.edu University of Toledo www.utoledo.edu University of Illinois at Springfield www.uis.eduOld Dominion University, Virginia www.odu.edu THE LIST GOES ON AND ON. REF:http://www.msinus.com/content/gr...







I would say it is an average score. But It can definitely help you get into a decent university. It doesn’t end there, universities look at the overall profile of a student while admissions.I have listed a few universities that accept GRE scores 300–310-San Francisco State University:Also referred to as SF State and SFSU, this is a public research university that is located in San Francisco, California. SF State offers 118 different Bachelor's degrees, 94 Master's degrees and 5 Doctoral degrees. It was founded in 1899. The university's academic colleges are: Liberal & Creative Arts, Business, Education, Ethnic Studies, Health and Social Sciences, Science and Engineering, in addition, this university has a College of Extended learning. SF State is on the semester system. The Cinema department of SF State in the College of Liberal & Creative Arts, was names one of the nation's "top film schools" by Entertainment Weekly in 2000. The most popular majors at San Francisco State University include: Business, Management, Marketing, and Related Support Services, Social Sciences, Health Professions and Related Programs and Visual and Performing Arts.Acceptance Rate-65%Check admits with GRE 300–310.(Overall good profile matters!)2. Stevens Institute of Technology:Stevens is ranked among the Top 100 universities in the USA. Established in 1870 by Edwin Augustus Stevens, Stevens Institute of Technology (SIT) is one of the first coeducational, private universities that was exclusively devoted to the field of mechanical engineering and is one of the most ancient universities in the United States of America. SIT admits over 5000 graduate and undergraduate students from all over the world. It runs 3 national Centers of Excellence as entitled by the U.S. Department of Homeland Security and U.S. Department of Defence.Acceptance rate-61%Check admits with GRE 300–3103. Arizona State University:ASU is ranked among the Top 50 universities in the USA. Arizona State University is a public research university founded in 1885. Located in the Phoenix Metropolitan Area, ASU is the largest public university in the USA in terms of enrolment. It’s also one of the universities most Indians apply to, without fail, since it qualifies as a ‘safe’ university, which means it’s pretty easy to get in. Mechanical, Electrical and Industrial courses are rated top notch at ASU.Acceptance rate-48%Check admits with GRE 300–310Below are few more universities that accept GRE 300–310-Auburn UniversityFlorida State UniversityNortheastern UniversityOklahoma State University-StillwaterTemple UniversityGood Luck!







There are two kinds of institutions offering online GRE courses in India.Type 1 : The international ones like1) Magoosh (80 to 100 USD which works out to Rs.5200 to Rs.6600)2) Kaplan (Rs. 35000 to Rs. 45000) Type 2: The Indian ones like1) GRE edge (Priced at around Rs.5000 to Rs.16000)2) Non specialists like Careerlauncher etc. who also charge somewhere in excess of Rs.6000There are two problems with both these types.1) The courses are not at all modular, try to cover every area from the basics and hence are prohibitively expensive. If you are already skilled in certain areas, this means an absolute waste of time and money. Why would you want to take a 30 hour program of which only 2 hrs are relevant to you?2) The course completion rates are pathetic (usually less than 10%). Why pay Rs.10000 for a course which you are never going to finish?Traditionally, the quality of these courses have always depended on the quality of the instructor. That is the reason why, at ChalkStreet, we find good quality private instructors (who have trained thousands of students with great success) and make highly modular courses and price it at an affordable level. Please check out the following courses, in case, you are preparing for the GRE.GRE Verbal Prep : A Definitive Guide | ChalkStreetGRE Prep: Crack the Quantitative Reasoning Section | ChalkStreetDisclosure: I am the cofounder of ChalkStreet -  but I do not mean this as a solicitation message but feel there is a genuine problem these courses are solving.All the very best for your GRE.Cheers!







Want to prepare for GRE? Here is a 4 step-easy process-Step 1: Get Started with Understanding the GRESo, as the first step, take the time to understand what the GRE will test.GRE Syllabus-1) A section called “Analytical Writing Ability” or AWA, which is basically just essay writingThis section contains two essays:a) “Analysis of an issue” in which you will be asked to write either for, or against a given topic.b) “Analysis of an argument” in which you will be given a situation that you need to argue against.2) Two sections of 35 minutes each for Quantitative Reasoning (fancy-speak for Maths)The four areas in which you will be tested are:a) Arithmeticb) Geometryc) Algebrad) Data Analysis3) Two sections of 30 minutes each for Verbal Reasoning (nothing but plain old English)a) Text Completion in which you will be given a sentence (or two) with one, two, or three blanks. From among the options, you need to pick the word(s) that correctly convey the intended meaning.b) Sentence Equivalence in which you will be given a sentence with one blank and you need to pick two (yes two!) options from among the six given. As you can imagine, the two words you pick should be synonymous, and fit in the blank.c) Reading Comprehension, in which you will be given a passage followed by a set of questions that you need to answer. The answer could either be explicitly stated in the passage (easy!) or implied through context (tough!).4) One section of either Maths or English that is not scoredGRE also gives you one extra section of either Maths or English. Thus, in total, you will have five sectioms.Step 2: Get the right GRE Study MaterialFollowing are the GRE study materials available to you:a) GRE Preparation on the internetWith the advent of online content and fast internet speeds, why would you want to stick to the “traditional” methods of pen and paper? Online GRE preparation gives you the flexibility to study on the go. Test preparation companies such as CrackVerbal offer you great options to study from the convenience of your home. See GRE Online course.b) GRE preparation booksIf you think the internet is a distraction and want to stick to a book, there are several options to choose from. You could either choose resources from a test preparation company like CrackVerbal, or stick to the official books published by ETS, as already discussed. CrackVerbal resources are:The CrackVerbal GRE Verbal GuideThe CrackVerbal GRE Quant Guidec) Free downloadable GRE preparation materialDo you know that Khan Academy has explanatory videos for many topics in the GRE Quantitative Reasoning section? (Trivia: Khan Academy was founded by Salman Khan, who has degrees from MIT and Harvard). You can find the videos here.You can also have a look at learning words through Learning Words the Fun Way – Flashcards. If you find them interesting, you can head over to Amazon to buy the entire set of 500 flashcards with quirky cartoons to help you quickly remember words and their meaning: CrackVerbal’s GRE Flashcards – pack of 500Step 3: Prepare for the GREYou just need a clear GRE study plan that is customized to meet your needs.  For many GRE aspirants, the study plan needs to be designed based on urgency to appear for the exam. For example, if you are planning to apply in August-September (fall intake) and it is already May, you would need an intensive three-month plan to be able to apply with a score.Step 4: Take the GREGRE practice testsBefore you go into the battlefield, you need to ensure that you have enough “match practice”.There is good news and bad news.The good news is that the GRE practice tests offered by ETS. are a fairly accurate indicator of where you will stand on the real test.The bad news is that you have only two full-length practice tests. Hence, after you take the tests, there is really no way to know if you are improving.You can always drop into your nearest CrackVerbal center if you want to take a free test, and have it evaluated by inhouse GRE experts.







Blog link: - Prepare for the GRE in a month[DISCLAIMER] : If you are someone who is aiming at a 335+ score in GRE you should probably avoid reading this article as you would need a much more meticulous preparation for the exam. A month or less would be insufficient according to me. If you are looking at a score which is 320/325+ (which according to me is a good score)/ or if you are looking at a full score in quant you should probably continue reading. Also if you want to prepare for GRE in a month then this should be the only thing you should be doing for that month.If you are working/ at college you might need more time.PREPARING FOR THE GREAs the article suggests, I'm writing how to prepare for the GRE in a month so this is my strategy : Preparation for 25 days, Practice Tests for 4 days and Chill for 1 day (day before the exam). A lot of people book dates quite in advance and say they have 2-3 months to prepare, but even they end up studying only in the last month. By the end of your third year, you don't move your ass until its on fire. xD . So deal with reality, you might plan and make schedules/ to-do lists to start studying from 3 months in advance but you won't.QUANTITATIVE REASONINGI believe the level of questions that is asked in the GRE in QR is pretty low. For a person who has prepared for IIT/AIEEE these questions might appear very kiddish. However the catch here is that although the questions appear to be easy one has to be perfect in them. I believe a 170 in QR ( If I can get it , anybody can ) is easily gettable and is a big boost to your score. It means that you need to be perfect in all the questions that you answer and CANNOT afford to make even a single mistake. This is the trick: Keeping your calm, Solving and Marking EVERYTHING correctly, Trust me there is nothing that you don't know.I believe this should be your strategy:Preparation StrategyTake up one topic each day: Solve the same topic from "5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problem " and from "1014 Practice Questions for the New GRE" . There will be about 15-20 topics in each book. So you should be done with that in about 20 days. Next take up " The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test, 2nd Edition" [Yes, Buy it] and finish up the Quant part of the book in 5 days. Voila! 25 days and you are done with Quant. There is no need to spend time doing the theory. Get straight down to the problems. If you get stuck in them and you need to know something from the theory just Google it and you will be done. For example while solving certain questions on circles you might need to revise certain properties and you can look them up as you are solving.Answering Strategy : 1 question 1 minuteIdeally this is what I believe: For the 20 questions asked in 35 mins. You should finish it in 20 minutes and take a good 15 minutes to go revise. Go through each question that you have answered and check if its correct. Do not panic if you cant do a question in a minute. Some might take longer and some maybe done in a few seconds. I believe the revision part is the key and it is this time that will ensure perfection. As I said Perfection (170/170) is the key.DATA INTERPRETATIONThis is something you might not have dealt with before or had lesser experience with as compared to geometry/arithmetic/algebra. This is again pretty easy. I would suggest that apart from solving this topic from the above books mentioned. Do solve the problems from these books. Click Here . Remember the wording of these questions might be a little tricky and so read the WHOLE question properly before you start answering. Also the "1 question 1 minute" might fail here but as I said there will be other questions that will finish in a few seconds.VERBAL REASONINGThis is a tough nut to crack. However, if you have your basic grammar skills right you shoud be able to score around 155-160 in Verbal. I personally scored 155 even though I had screwed up one section of Verbal and so I think you can easily score well in Verbal too if you have been practising diligently. I'll begin by talking about the Vocab Part.Preparation StrategyLEARNING WORDSLike it or not you have to do this. This is how I would want you to go about doing this. I recommend three sources :a) Barron's 800 Essential Word List - GRE (800 words)b) Android Apps on Google Play (1000 words)c) Barron & Kaplan GRE Words (514 words) (514 words)Start with (a) and (b) . Begin your day with 40 words from (a) in the morning. Do 40 words from (b) during the afternoon and before you go to sleep do (20) words from (a) . When you finish (a) you will be left with (b) and you will be at Adanced Level of (b) so you can allocate your time accordingly so that at the end of 20 days you are done with the 1800 words. I have planned for 100 words a day so you should finish in 18 days. Keep a buffer of 2 days in case things don't work some day.The memrise technique of learning through visual clues/memes is pretty interesting and helps you remember stuff.Remember: Before you begin with the 40 new words in the morning, REVISE the 40 you had learnt the earlier day in the morning. Before you begin with the 40 from (b), REVISE what you had learnt from (b) the previous day. Keep revising what you learnt before.At the end of 20 days you will be done with (a) and (b) . Now start with (c) . This will basically be a subset of (a) and (b). So this is revision. 100 words a day X 5 days, and you are done with (c). So, you are done with your vocabulary in 25 days.READING COMPREHENSIONThis according to me is the most crucial part. It is this which can make or break your GRE. For someone who's vocab is not that good, this becomes even more important. RC is nothing but just pure strategy and keeping your calm. You can only perfect this through practice and NOTHING else. The options are very confusing and you may get mislead, hence it is important that you keep practising every day. I would suggest that you keep doing 2 paragraphs a day. So in roughly about 25 days. You would have solved around 50 passages. If you need more practice you might have to increase that number but you CANNOT afford to take this up lightly.Solve RC from the following book: Big Book 27 tests. It has a series of 27 tests. Each has 4 passages : 2 long and 2 short. The Big Book is based on the Old GRE. in the previous GRE there used to be many more questions per passage. It would even upto 7 questions a passage. However, in the New GRE, there will be passages which have 1/2/3/4 questions. I believe that if you solve RC from the Big Book and are able to do it then you can easily crack the RC for the New GRE. You might find it tough initially , but keep solving and learning from your mistakes and one day you will be able to solve the Big Book passages with ease. Initially for about 5-10 days you need not time yourself but once you cross 10 days time yourself. You might also want to have a look at these books : 501 RC Questions / Manhattan RCTEXT AND SENTENCE EQUIVALENCE/COMPLETIONA good vocab is pointless if you don't know how to use it. After you have learnt your vocab keep practising from the following books: 501 SC Questions / Manhattan SC . Solve from these two books. Also you can have a look at the 5 lb pound book suggested earlier. Keep aside days 20-25 to prepare from the ETS Book. So in 20 days try and work maximum problems from the books suggested above. Then go on and take some time to solve questions from the ETS Book.Answering StrategyFor the verbal section you will have 20 questions in 30 minutes. My strength was RC so I dedicated a good amount of time to it. A quick advice: There will be questions which have 3 blanks to fill, do not spend a lot of time thinking on those questions if that is not your strong area. The chances of making an error is quite high. In the first section of Verbal I answered, I wasted a lot of time on it and when I looked at the watch I had 10 minutes left and 10 questions to finish and these were the bigger RC questions. Make sure you never reach such a stage. Know that the RC questions are going to take time and are lengthy. Finish them up first if you want to. Ideally you have 1.5 minutes for each question. So, a standard passage of 3 questions should definitely be done in under 5 minutes. Devise a strategy for yourself before you go on to Practice Tests based on your areas of strength.PRACTICE TESTSSo after around 25 days of prep you should be more confident in your prep and it's a good time to start writing practice tests . Write one a day in exactly the same time slot as you have booked your test slot. These are the 4 practice tests I would suggest.2 from the ETS CD you would have recieved when you bought the book1 Manhattan1 Princeton Review/Kaplan (Google it!)Follow all the rules and do it diligently as if it were a real tests. Analyse your mistakes and see were you went wrong. Keep improving and doing better. These were roughly my scores:1st Test - ETS - 3152nd Test - Manhattan - 3183rd Test - ETS - 3204th Test - Princeton Review - 322In the end , in the actual GRE I got 325 (V:155,Q:170, AWA: 5.0) . I believe I could have got around 328-330.Hope this post helps you in your prep / at least motivates you that you can prepare for GRE in a month if you do it whole-heartedly.Cheers.







Thanks for A2A1 month is more than enough if you are willing to put 4+hours preparation time per day.If you are from engineering background and aiming for MS in engineering then concentrate less on verbal, because more emphasis will be laid just on your Quant score for admissions. A165+ is an excellent quant score, and a 160+ is a good one. With one month dedicated preparation and the below strategy, 162+ is easily achievable.   To get an idea of exam, its better to complete this book:The Official Guide to GRE , Second edition. Its available in this link: https://drive.google.com/folderv...Firstly, below is a good strategy used by me and many of my friends and all of us managed to get 162+ in quant with approx 1 month preparation.1. Complete book number 3 and 5 in this link:https://drive.google.com/folderv...Time: 3day/book 2. Do Counting , Probability & Statistics, Permutations & Combinations from the book "NOVA MATHS BIBLE" in this link: https://drive.google.com/folderv...Time: 2-3daysAfter completing above 2 points, you will be in a position to easily score 160+ because usually the once's mentioned above are where we loose most marks.3. This is final stage. Start solving all quant's from the book "5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems" (try to find ebook in the google drive links mentioned earlier) . Go from topics which you feel is difficult (like work , ratio etc) to easier onces (like functions etc) . Aim to finish 2topics/day, this way you can complete the whole book is 2weeks, depending on your speed.Time: 2 weeks depends on effort/day4. After all this if you still want to practice, you can use this book:  https://www.facebook.com/groups/...Time: 1 day5. What will help most is, taking 4 free full length exams from this link:Follow these steps to get free full tests:1. Go to http://www.princetonreview.com/c...2. Enter the ISBN as 9780307945648.3. Create an account on their site.P.S : The advantage of PR Tests is that they will grade your essays.!You can review each answer, plus they will review essay and give marks.Doing first 4 points will just help us in tackling all types of problems, but only while taking timed test, we will learn to solve problems in given time.Secondly, I would not suggest anything for verbal preparation. Its a waste of time to learn so many words.Many of us who studied around 250 words scored 150+, many of my friends had done 1500+ words and scored lesser than 150. Its purely luck.But if you have enough time and you wish to prepare well, you can do  "BARRONS 333 HIGH FREQUENCY WORD LIST"Its more than sufficient.Thirdly,  GRE-AWA is very very important.You have to get above 3/6, else universities will reject.People often neglect this and suffer.There r 2 types of essays:1)     Go through these samples:  http://www.testpreppractice.net/...2)     Go through these samples : http://www.testpreppractice.net/...Read 5-10 essays in above links and get a clue as to how to go about in the exam.Practice essays in all Princeton tests.Don’t skip any essay in any mock tests.Including,Powerprep.This much is more than enough to get 3+.Lastly, download ETS POWERPREP 2 SOFTWARE available in ETS website.Take the 1st test 3weeks before GRE.2nd test 1 week before GRE.Final score will be usually in between scores of these 2 tests.All the best! :)







The internet is flooded with awesome forums and groups for GRE aspirants. In the era of online education, the advantages of one-on-one interaction, personalized online training, doubt clearance, and many other aspects of learning are what you should capitalize on to give an edge to your preparation.However, I would like to emphasize here that even though forums are excellent sources of information, one will not be able to achieve high scores using just forums and discussion groups. It is not a prudent idea! One requires expert guidance to score high and land in his/her dream university.  With that said, here is a list of forums which one might find somewhat useful:Urch-GRE: Urch is a great place for students to interact with fellow GRE aspirants. Still it has some cons. Find the specific pros and cons of Urch-GRE forum in this Table.The GradCafe: The topics in this forum are broad, ranging from AWA analysis to Visa preparations. This forum differs from Urch and also has a set of pros and cons:Dr. Raju's Forum: This is another good forum for GRE verbal and quant preparations. There are threads which address issues related to Visa and other admission requirements.GRE PrepClub-Forum: This website is dedicated to GRE and has detailed GRE forums. The forums offer in-depth and detailed analysis of each topicEdulix forum: is known for its profile evaluation sub-forum. It is also a well thought GRE prep forum, it still lacks the volume of GRE preparation threads.For details about other forums, you can check this blog: Best online forums for GRE preparation.There are some Facebook groups which can be helpful for a self-preparing student, who seeks to get quick replies to his doubts. Check these out:MS in US fall' 2016: Though it seems a little out-dated, the group is active. People regularly post their doubts and get replies from fellow aspirants and other experienced people. It is a big community of like-minded people aiming for success in GRE.MS Dreams: This is another group with 6 k+ members looking to land in their dream universities for Master’s. The added advantage in this group is that as aspirants interact with each other, GREedge experts answer each doubt with careful analysis of the doubt. Expert advice is a big advantage any day. The group also has regular quizzes and other activities to keep the aspirants well-informed and engaged.To summarize there a few good things & the some not so good things of general user groups and forums. To state a few:Answers usually don’t come from experts that is why the answers are not carefully curated or vetted. All kinds of marketers & product pushers and highly excitable or frustrated writers take to such forums. It is highly likely to see a swaying, persuasive statement that is far from the truth or at least not universally applicable. In the field of GRE preparation, high score and university choice - personalization is everything. The decisions, teaching and training has to be quite nuanced and personalized to each student. This tends to be missing in a general, uncurated forums.Forums are a great place for you to interact with other GRE aspirants like yourself. You can clarify doubts and gain insights into personal experiences such as things to watch out for on the test day etc.That said, it is necessary to acknowledge that in these forums, it is personal experiences, not expert guidance, that takes the forefront. What works for one student may not work for another and blindly following a plan without ensuring it adheres to your strengths and problem areas is a concern.Keep your eye on the prize when you are preparing i.e, getting the best admit for your profile and choose the right method of preparation tailor-made for you.







Answer is biased for GRE since I have no interest in GMAT:You'll only need Welcome - CrunchPrep GRE.I came across this site when I was searching for taking online tests i.e., 33 Free GRE Practice Tests That You Should Definitely Take! - CrunchPrep GRE Then I started reading other posts by crunchprep.11 Reasons Why You Should Choose Online GRE Prep - CrunchPrep GRE 27 Proven Test Day Tips To Ace The GRE - CrunchPrep GRE The Ultimate Guide to Scoring 330+ on the GRE - CrunchPrep GRE Manhattan GRE Book Review - CrunchPrep GRE Top 101 High Frequency GRE Words - CrunchPrep GRE How Long Should Your GRE Essay Be? A Data Driven Answer - CrunchPrep GRE 21 Killer GRE Essay Quotes You Should Be Using Right Now - CrunchPrep GRE What is the GRE Experimental Section All About? - CrunchPrep GRE And the best post by them, according to me is the followingThe Ultimate List of US Universities for GRE Scores 300 to 310 - CrunchPrep GRE The Ultimate List of US Universities for GRE Scores 310 to 320 - CrunchPrep GRE The Ultimate List of US Universities for GRE Scores 320 to 340 - CrunchPrep GRE And they are very responsive in the comments section and the discussion page. So take your time exploring it and be successful in your endeavours!







There are lots of forums which will help you prepare for GRE. There are apps like Magoosh, ChalkStreet, higheredu.com, Facebook groups and pages which will help you prepare for GRE/GMAT.GRE involves 3 sections which are namely analytical reasoning, quants and verbal. Indians or Asians in general don’t face much trouble when it comes to the quants section but a fair chunk of them find the verbal section quite challenging since they aren’t accustomed to the vocabulary.GRE is predominantly a vocabulary based test. Being thorough with the high frequency (300) words could make a huge difference in your GRE score. Even a few marks can cost you a seat in your dream university. The knowledge of your vocabulary is immensely tested in various questions like sentence correction, text completion and reading comprehension.Personally I would recommend ChalkStreet since you want to be a part of forums which have everything to do with GRE/GMAT. They have dedicated Facebook groups to help GRE aspirants. They also offer free counselling for the aspirants and if you have any queries or doubts you can always ping them and their team of experts will clear your doubts immediately. They also have a discussions forum on their website and app where you can interact with fellow aspirants as well as their experts.ChalkStreet is a great app for android users and it is also available as a website which will help you ace the GRE. It is a website which has courses on diverse subjects at levels to suit the learner. Apart from courses the app/website also has a lot of articles related to higher education. It will not just help you improve your vocabulary immensely. It will also help you with the quants section. It has vast collection of articles and practise questions. There are videos which deal with only the high frequency words and the various shortcuts like etymology which you can use to remember the words and the in-context meaning.







Hey, congratulations for opting for higher education abroad. Well, there are a number offorums online including GREPrepClub, GREedge, Mangoosh, CrackVerbal, GRE-Urch,Gradcafe forums etc which could help you prepare for your GRE but from a personalpoint of view I could say that you could study the three sections of GRE from differentwell known sources.Quantitative section:Manhattan, Princeton and ETS publishers have published really wonderful books forquantitative reasoning.Verbal section:It requires a wonderful vocabulary and for that you should make the dictionary your bestfriend.  Some good dictionaries for the preparation are:1. Dictionary.com - The world’s favorite online dictionary!- This widely used online dictionary comes with thesaurus,sentence explanations etc.2. Oxford Advanced Learner&#39;s Dictionary: It comes with a thesaurus along withother features like grammatical usages etc.3. Concise English Dictionary and Thesaurus: This dictionary is available as amobile application with various useful features like explained meaning, sentenceformation etc.Memorize app and Magoosh Flashcard app can serve the purpose too.Analytical writing section:ETS also provides an online service known as ScoreItNow! It is an online writingpractice service that helps one in the preparation for the Analytical Writing section of theGRE. ScoreItNow! has a few unique features that can prove to be beneficial to the GREaspirants. You can submit your essays on this web-based tool and get an immediatescore by ETS’s e-rater scoring system. You receive feedbacks on the essays submittedby you and get suggestions on how to improve your analytical writing skills. You canalso review graded essays on the topics you select. This tool enables you to judge thelevel of your preparation.Finally, I would recommend you to enroll yourself for weekly practice tests once youthink you are more or less prepared for GRE. Those tests enable you to understandwhere you stand such that you can gear up and work harder to achieve the highest.Refer to the following blogs by GyanDhan to know more about how to prepare for theverbal section and the analytical writing section:GyanDhan ace-GRE- Verbal-sectionGyanDhan







Dear GRE folks,I think most of you are familiar with http://greprepclub.com/?fl=menuplatform, which is still in development not comparing with GMAT club. This platform is very convenient for your preperations, because it gives you possibilities:1. Become familiar with recent and diverse GRE questions2. Comment, and interact with other people regarding the questions3. Add questions and seek for an explaination4. Make a network and engage in preperation process through a flexible platform5. It is free to sign up, and includes a lot of GRE materials 6. There are multiple other benefits in this web-site, which you would explore after signing upThe reason of why I am writing this letter is that I noticed how in similar GMAT platform, GMAT people are in intensive engagement--commenting, debating, discussing and so forth. So, lets develop our platform to increase our grades and have a fun.







Database of admitted GRE scores, community of students .Bsfsos aka By the students, For the students, Of the students was created to build and maintain the database of institutions admission cut off scores and reviews to help upcoming students in their admissions journey.Bsfsos GRE College predictor uses these data contributed by students to predict colleges to upcoming students based on their scores and experience.Data which is available publicly on Bsfsos is free and open to everyone.The data on bsfsos is purely contributed by public, Bsfsos in no way guarantees accuracy of publicly contributed data such as institution cut off and personal admitted scores. These data are used at your own risk, while we try our best to maintain legit data and delete reported and invalid data.Students who contribute data such as their admitted scores or institution cut off scores are made publicly available on Bsfsos. Bsfsos respects privacy of users and do not display any sensitive data of users publicly. Community peers hold right to delete and alter any data contributed by public without notification.Please share your admitted stats on Bsfsos takes less than 10 seconds and helps 1000s of upcming students.Let me know if you guys need any help







No, a GRE score is not mandatory for admissions in MS courses in Canada. However, it completely depends and varies with the course of study and university that you are applying to.In addition, if you wish to have an edge over the other applicants in terms of the impression your student profile makes, then a good GRE score will be useful for you.In fact, most of the top universities recommend you to have a GRE score for admission into their MS courses.Hope it helps!







I will respectfully disagree with those who state that the GRE is not necessary.The answer I would give is “it depends”The specific program will define if the GRE is required, or not.For example, ECE at UBC “"strongly recommends” it for foreign students. Minimum Requirementsif I were applying to that program, I would certainly take it and submit it.CS at UBC does not even recommend it.SFU clearly states that it is required by some programs (Simon Fraser University)Thus, you should check the requirements of the specific program. Do not assume that anyone on the internet can give you a definitive answer to such a program specific question.







Well it depends on University you are applying to. Some universities clearly mention that it is mandatory to get admission where as some universities states that they encourage applicants from outside Canada to submit GRE score in order to enhance their profile. Overall, if you are having low GPA then good GRE score can somewhat help you to improve your profile and chances to get admission.







Yes,for those who are seeking admissions in top 5 universities of Canada..otherwise it's not compulsory..you can get admission by giving IELTS only..so work on your academics and your speaking,listening,reading and writing skills and try to get around 7 or more in IELTS then you will have a great chance of securing admissions.All the best..!!!







GRE is not at all mandatory for Canada. Most of the Canadian universities ask for IELTS/TOEFL. However there are some universities which might ask for GRE score. Almost all U.S. universities require to have GRE score.For further assistance you can visit our website: www.westernacademy.co.in







It depends on the school you're going to apply. As per my knowledge GRE is not mandatory for colleges. However, some universities will ask for GRE score and also it'll give you plus point to your resume. As I got admission from University of Ottawa, GRE is not mandatory but if you wrote, they'll consider the score and kept in your file and evaluate that scores also.







I took the GRE this past November and scored 170/170 Quant and 163 / 170 Verbal and prepped for about 1.5 to 2 months. Feel free to message with me with any questions at shalini@grovenue.comMy vocabulary prep involved the following:I started by studying the flash cards by Magoosh - their app is simple, interactive and offline mode-enabled (I think). Very useful to keep revising words when you’re on the go or have a few minutes to spare.Making sure I knew the answer to words in the 5lb book by Manhattan GMAT - they also have a pretty cool online tool with the words.Reading NYT, WSJ and the Economist to understand usage of words - also helps remember words, a LOT.Creating fun mnemonics based on my personal experiences to remember words with similar (but not the same) meaning.Making a list of potential synonyms. For example, profligate and prodigal both have similar meanings and are much easier to remember when you link them in your mind.Practicing the verbal questions (especially sentence completion) for at least 1–2 hours each day. It was great practice and I discovered new words to learn this way.







The best way to memorize a GRE word list and probably the basic thing to learn is to use a word as you learn. If you are even an average guy in English vocab you don’t need to feel crestfallen by seeing the huge word lists. There are apps membean(web only) Divii English and illustrate on the playstore which will show you how to use a particular word by videos. This would help you remember the word much easily and develop your vocab as you dive deep into the word list. Because you know how to use a word completely rather than just remembering it you have minimal chances of forgetting it. To remember it for even longer time you could just make a book containing your usage of the vocab you are learning. with this you don’t need an year you could just do it in a month or two.







To have learning ability is to possess a second soul.Glad to know that you feel the importance of GRE Vocabulary. I saw many people who even did not listen the name of it. The GRE vocabulary words section can be quite tricky and hazardous but with the right preparations & practice as well you can improve your score. The verbal segment is highly reliant on GRE vocabulary and reading comprehension for the best preparations, so make sure you spend a lot of time focusing on both of skills.I would not suggest you a number of sites to prepare for GRE vocabulary words but the one and only I prefer is wifistudy. Not only for vocabulary words, the website lets you enjoy learning English vocabulary words that are necessary while gearing up for GRE vocabulary words. I consider it as the prime source for the bonzer preparation for vocabulary words for any purposes. As I’m not a supporter of the website, I will mention only three main features of the site I love most.The Three Main Features Of The Best Site For GRE VocabularyDaily Vocab: The most appreciated feature of the website is Daily Vocab. This is one and only that allows you to learn new GRE words with its synonyms and antonyms on daily basis in the form of an interesting article. Also it will let you know the tiny difference between words and phrases accordingly.GRE Vocab Quiz: It is said that, “PRACTICE MAKES A MAN PERFECT”. The line has proven via GRE vocab quiz. The more you practice on vocabulary words the more you will be dexterous at it. Take daily quiz to prepare for GRE vocabulary better than best.Video Lessons: Videos put great impact on our mind. May be having this thing in mind, the website owner has embedded the video lessons for the users. Anyways, whether it is true or not, I loved these video lessons a lot and no doubt these GRE vocabulary videos helped me to be dab-hand at GRE vocabulary.Utilizing the best website ever for GRE vocabulary, you will be able to beef up your GRE vocabulary skills. A great tactic to practice for the GRE vocabulary for verbal section is to use vocabulary rhymes in communication. By making the learning process entertaining and fun you are much more likely to live more time studying and less time worrying.







Hi there!The verbal part can be tough for some people. Fortunately, there are several free resources available on the net.I recommend you to refer to the lectures on EduSaathi's website, or their YouTube channel. It will help you greatly.







It worked like a gem for me. According to my knowledge 80% of the questions came from this Manhattan 5lb . I just prepared only 13 days with this book and scored 327.It’s simply an amazing book. I recommend itYou can also try these materials. If you want a good result in short term. Your preparation should be very crispy and lucid. Acheving a good score with these books is not a big task. believe me.Download link: HereI read it thoroughly, worked out every single problem, and went through their sample essays as well. I didn't look at their word lists though. I highly recommend their Quant section- It is as close to the real GRE as possible without being written by ETS themselves. Their Verbal section places more emphasis on knowing horribly obscure words, and isn't as good as the Quant section. Despite that, I would still recommend doing Short RC and RC passages from the book, and taking all the tests they have at the end of the book. Go through the TC and SE parts, but don't worry if you don't know most of the words they use.Finally For quant Manhattan 5lb book is more than equal to the actual GRE. It helps you a lot for your quant training. Just getting through that book will be enough for quant.Source- MS DEGREE IN US







The best source invariably is 'Word Power Made Easy' by Normal Lewis.Learning by etymology is, by far, the easiest, fastest and the finest way of enhancing your vocabulary.The second, I would recommend is reading books by P.G. Wodehouse. Simple, humorous stories, with language of the highest order. They make for a light read, but enhance your vocabulary greatly.As you approach your GRE dates, jump to the gold standards of preparation – Barron’s list of words. Magoosh, Kaplan and VocabSmith.I found VocabSmith particularly useful. VocabSmith’s application on my iPhone helped me learn the words, meanings, etymology, pronunciation, meanings with their usages. Further, VocabSmith would revise all the words over 2-3 weeks; this ensured I wouldn’t forget the words. I had subscribed to their GRE – High Frequency Package(1000 words) and could learn all the words in approximately two months.Vocabsmith is available in both Android and iOS versions. Links are given below:iOS:	https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/...Android:	https://play.google.com/store/ap...







It has been seen some renowned coaching are not fetching good score to all of their students. So it would be wrong to say that take admission in particular coaching institute and you will get good score. There are many factors that determine the score of an individual. In order to decide which one is best just look at the following points -Interact with the faculty and take demo so that you could be able to make sure that how your class would be.Look at Your problems vis-i -vis strength of the trainer.Understand whether he is being to convince you .Flexibility of the institution.And authenticity of its material.Your comfortability with the other externalities.best of luck…!!







According to me the best site to prepare for GRE is Magoosh GRE Prep because they provide the best online coaching. Apart from their course, they provide many free resources like Official GRE Guide related videos and free PDFs with tips and guides using which you can prepare in short time. Also, its practice questions that are similar to the real GRE and it even has unlimited adaptive practice tests just like in real computer based exam.Take a look at above screenshot which shows feature rich dashboard. It has a very realistic and important score predictor. One can even compare their pacing to others’ pacing. Only suggested videos(Magoosh suggests videos according to your progress) are shown in dashboard. From the videos tab, you can access more than 200 video lessons. The video lessons range from basic level till advanced level for all the 3 sections (Maths, Verbal and AWA) of GRE exam. These video lessons helps you to learn/brush up the basics before you dive-into practice questions. It is especially useful for those who like to learn/brush GRE basics without reading books. Besides, you can remember better when if you see and hear(video) than just reading book. Magoosh also has 1000+ collection of questions with video explanations for each. They also give the number of questions which may appear from a given topic. This helps you to divide the practice time for each topic based on number of questions appearing from that topic. The idea is simple! Spend more time on the topics from which more questions will appear.One more advantage with Magoosh GRE prep is that it has customizing feature for Practice Sessions. This feature helps you to prepare/practice the questions according to your needs. Practice test has features as followsSelecting section ( Math / Verbal / Writing ).Choosing different subtopics in each section.Selecting difficulty level (easy, medium, hard and adaptive).Selecting the required question pool.Customizing number of questions.Practicing with or without time limit.Restricting the number of questions for a session.Quiz Mode/Practice Mode (In practice mode, video explanation will be shown after each question).The above features helped me to focus my practice on the topics which needed much more practice than others. Also, you can decide to practice more on the topics in which you are weak. You can choose to take up as much practice tests as you can until you feel comfortable with a topic.From the above screenshot you can see that one can even see the time taken to answer the question along with its difficulty level and time taken by others. It also have an onscreen calculator that is very similar to real exam. You can even flag a question so that you can review it later or start a practice test with all the flagged questions. You have an option to hide/view the on screen timer just like in a real GRE exam. Offcourse, each and every question has all the above features. If you have any doubt regarding any question, they’ll help you through email. Recently, they have also started one on one tutoring service.Magoosh has many free Apps for android and iOS phones/tablets. They also have Vocabulary, Math, Grammar and many more flashcards which can be accessed either through app or browser. They even have a Youtube channel where they upload many free video lectures and other related material links.Now, to learn vocabulary you can take the help of mnemonics. By using mnemonics, I was able to remember the complex words better. You can visit Mnemonic Dictionary as it has meanings along with mnemonics for many words. A screen shot of Mnemonic Dictionary can be found below.I would also like to mention that Magoosh Flashcards and many more resources are completely free. However, they also have a free 7 days trial (Free trial option will be just below premium plans) for online coaching using which you can try their amazing service for free. So, you can buy their service only if you are pleased with their service(I’m sure you will be pleased).All the best for your GRE!! :)







I had recently took GRE exam and I had followed an YouTube channel “Perfect Scores” Quant section and I got it pretty well score just by preparing for one day max.Verbal section: Do follow Magoosh apps for verbal.P.S: These are apps suggested by me. There may be even better apps.







As others have already said, Magoosh Online Test Prep is a fantastic resource. Make sure you use all the resources like their blog, ebooks & study plans, all of which are completely free.    If you are willing to pay, consider the premium plan. It's totally worth it and costs only half as much as the coaching institutes.   Also, any other material you want to study can be downloaded from the net for free. All the best!







Magoosh- Magoosh Online GRE Prep is a great sitebefore you sign up, make sure that you are in dire need of coaching for gre.May be you can nail it with self study and a few practice tests. Go through the test pattern and a few mock tests before you sign up.







No need of attending coaching classes to score good in GRE. Preparing online is the elite way.Follow Kalpan’s and Barron’s materials. Read books vigorously and learn new word.Use these words in your daily life.Learn synonyms of the words you found new.Practice Magoosh practice papers. Use Vocabsmith GRE app for vocabulary. Vocabsmith GRE application helped me learn the words, meanings, etymology, pronunciation, meanings with their usages. Further, VocabSmith would revise all the words over 2-3 weeks; this ensured I wouldn’t forget the words. I had subscribed to their GRE – High Frequency Package(1000 words) and could learn all the words in approximately two months.Coming to quant, solve all problems in 5 lb of practice papers by Manthann. It is more than enough to score good in quant.







Lyceum in mylapore is the best center for GRE in chennai. Princeton review centres at adyar and anna nagar are good. Apart from that there are few centres like Top Gre and Scoregetter which are reasonably good ( Though not very famous) You can always go with some online coaching like GREedge, Manhattan gre. All the best.







The Princeton Review : Overseas Admissions Guidance - GRE, GMAT, SAT, PSAT, SAT II, ACT, AP, IELTS, TOEFL Preparation







See! Most of them end up going to a particular institute because they have tie-ups with colleges and provide admission guarantee. If you think about it, it becomes a liability on them and they will get you admissions in any of the colleges just for the sake of it. Crackverbal according to me is a good institute as it focuses on giving a better coaching for a less cost and helps in guiding students which shows that they have the best interest in doing what they do.Here are couple of things I chose crackverbal for:1.I personally liked the faculty there as they have got a score more than 320 and are highly qualified.2. The way they approach vocabulary is very different and good.You'll also see the change when you join it; also it came into my budget. So crackverbal it is for me!!!







In my personal view, regular classroom/coaching is not the best option. Instead, go for online preparation weather Kaplan , Manhattan or Princeton Review for Mock Tests. For regular practice, the best option is Magoosh- Complete one stop solution.Video tutorial/explanation for every type of question in quants and verbal. Special tips and tricks for AWA section. Moreover, it will keep a track on your practice and will point out your weaker areas so that you can improve timely. Sign up for a trial account, buy it if you like it.Magoosh Online GRE Prep







Princeton Review- No - 42/295, 2nd Floor Mrj Complex, Velachery Main Road, Velacheri, Near Vijaya Nagar Bus Terminus, Chennai - 600042Adele Vistas4GMATAscent EducationThey are all fairly good. If you want more, you may be interested in checking out the site that I work for- Top GRE Coaching Institutes in Chennai







Thanks fort A2A!I attended Princeton Review, T.Nagar and it was really good in my opinion. The faculty were very knowledgeable and helpful till the time I gave my exams. I haven't done any qualitative analysis on which center is the best, but I can assure you that Princeton Review, T.Nagar is good.Hope this helps! All the very best!







Short answer: Want to pursue your Master’s abroad or specifically in the US? The GRE exam will help you do this. GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination.Long answer: It is a standardized test that is generally required by universities in the US and certain other universities across the globe. What is a standardized test, you ask? A standardized test is any test which requires all test-takers to a) answer the same questions or questions from a common bank of questions in the same manner and b) that is scored or evaluated in the same manner. This ensures that all test-takers, objectively, have an equal shot at success and also allows for the comparison of the relative performance of an individual.Now let’s cover the GRE Exam pattern. The GRE exam can be divided broadly into two categories:The Quantitative Reasoning SectionThe Verbal Reasoning Section - Both assessed on a scale of 130-170.There is a third, Analytical Writing Section that (as the name suggests) aims to measure your ability to construct and articulate complex ideas and arguments and support them. This section is of particular importance to PhD aspirants.The test can be taken throughout the year AND the scores you receive are valid for FIVE years after you take the exam. This is good news for those who aren’t sure when they want to start studying or those whose original plans get derailed.If and when you decide to take the GRE exam, you’re going to want to score as high as you can, right? The good news is, it’s not as hard as you might think.Good luck to you!







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is a test that is a requirement for most of the masters and doctoral degree programs in most of the universities of the US, UK, Germany, and Canada. The exams are developed and administered by Educational Testing Services (ETS). This is the most popular exam for pursuing MS abroad.What’s the purpose of the GRE Exam?According to the ETS, the GRE intends to measure the analytical, quantitative, verbal, and critical thinking skills of a test-taker. Broadly speaking, the GRE questions are based on concepts from the basic Maths, verbal logic, and vocabulary. This Exam is mainly taken by MS aspirants who want to study abroad.What are the prerequisites for GRE?There are no official prerequisites for taking this exam and it is intended for undergraduate students and bachelor’s degree graduated students. It is offered almost everywhere in the world in only one language- English.It is offered all around the year as a computer-based test which can be taken once in 21 days with a restriction of max 5 times a year. On multiple attempts, the best score is considered. Once taken, the score is valid for 5 years. It is also offered as a paper-based test 3 times a year where the computer-based facility isn’t available. However, most of the people go for a computer-based test.What’s the cost for the GRE Exam?The cost of taking the test is 205 US Dollars 13,500 to 14,000 INR (Although, it might vary based on the country). ETS also offers financial aid to students who prove economic hardship.GRE consists ofVerbal-1. Use etymology to guess the meaning of words you are not confident on2. Critical reasoning is just one percent of the syllabus; so do not spend alot of time dwelling on it. They are usually time-consuming and hence do not start the section with it.3. Do not attempt to do all Reading comprehension in one go. You may lose track of the time and monotonous passages will drone you out.4. Look out for antonyms in the option sets. They will help you eliminate the incorrect options.5. Compensate for the extra time in Reading Comprehension questions by Sentence Equivalence (synonyms) which can be solved in less than a minute.Quant-1. Use the substitution method and check possibilities to ascertain the correct choice. They will save you more time than if you actually try to solve.2. Make your own diagrams. Just because 2 sides of a triangle are 3 and 4, it doesn’t imply the 3rd side will be 5 units, unless it is a right-angled triangle. Such tricky questions are a part and parcel of almost every question.3. Just because the Calculator is available doesn’t mean you jump to start calculating. Many questions are logic questions and can be solved with the right approach. Just see if the answer you are looking for is an odd number, a prime number, a multiple of a number, etc and you will be able to save on calculation time.4. Usually, it is the silly mistakes that cost most of us. How often have we forgotten that 0 is an even number, or that square root of 64 can also be -8! Just try to recheck the answers along with the options to make sure you have not missed the obviousAWA-1. Familiarize yourself with a pool of 300 topics suggested by ETS over a period of time. Since your exam starts with the essay writing section, you don’t want to come across a topic which you don’t understand. The panic will then set in and have a domino effect, affecting the rest of the sections.2. In issue essays always take a stand. The idea is to judge how well you are able to defend the stand you take3. In argumentative essays always try to find fault in the logic.4. It is important to have a proper structure in place in both the essays with a proper introduction and a conclusion which reiterates and justifies your stand5. A good essay should be around 350-500 words.However, there are Universities who do not require GRE for MS.Hope this helps.







Reposting from my other answer: Austin Li's answer to What is the best way to prepare for a competitive exam (CAT/GRE/GMAT) in 1 year without paying any tuition?The quick and dirty guide for the GRE: Raise your score by 10 - 20 in a week!Note: I'm writing this because my girlfriend might be taking the GRE in a few months and I wanted to write a guide for her. I'm a lazy prick. I don't like to study, and despite buying the Barron's, the Kaplan, and the Official guide, I only studied about 2% of the content in a week. I started on the diagnostic test and got 160 quant, 150 verbal. On the real test I got a 164 quant, 163 verbal, and 5.5 AWA. The AWA is a joke. Read on and I'll show you how to nail it. If you're reading this and taking the test in a week, most of these tips will still help. This is probably the most helpful strategy. It keeps your time management spot on, and it frees your mind from the stress of remembering your thoughts when the mental fatigue starts getting to you. Before the test starts and in-between test sections, you are given a few minutes of time. Use all of this time to prepare. Lay out the scrap paper in landscape and use a pen to make a deductive logic grid. Don't bother with a ruler making pretty lines, just make sure you do it and label the question numbers in an easy way to read.The problems usually have 4 to 5 multiple choice options. If you're unsure of the answer, you will usually be able to tell 2 to 3 choices to be wrong if you know the math and the vocabulary words, and a remainder of 2 choices that you're unsure about/forgot the meaning/couldn't figure out the final steps of the math.Grid: Note that on the verbal section, do not fill in the question number as there will be some questions of multiple blanks that you need to each fill correctly to gain credit (Killer!), so label those questions "1 a, 1 b, 1 c".Take at most roughly a minute for each question. Since the new revision it is less important to ensure you get the first few questions right. If you see an answer that is wrong, mark an "X" on to the grid for that choice. If you see an answer that you are unsure about between two, mark an "O" on the grid.On the verbal section where a question has multiple blanks to fill, you will probably end up with a question that you are not sure about on almost all the choices, of which you need to chain the "O"s together to see which one makes sense. There are only 6 combinations on 3 blanks, each with 2 unsure choices. Eliminate from those and you'll end up with 2 to 3 choices, and will raise your probability of success from 1/27 (3 choices on 3 blanks) to about 1/2.5 (2 choices on 3 blanks, with 3-4 of 6 combinations eliminated)Circle the question numbers that you are unsure of. When you're done with the section, you can zoom back quickly and identify the question you need to check and redo.ALWAYS PICK AN ANSWER. A guess still counts to points!Buy the flash cards and sleep with them. If you've already bought them but are not sleeping with them, start doing so now. Bring them around with you to dinner, to gaming, to socializing and on and on. Break the pile of flash cards into loops of 50 cards. Study through one loop each day, and move on to the next. On the two days after you've finished a loop, do a written test with the flashcard loop only showing the word but no definition. In seven days you'll have memorized 250 words for the GRE. Always pick from flashcards of a "most frequent" list to cover high probability words.The AWA is a joke. Lots of people lose unnecessary points on it because of cultural practices and because of the personality of writing they present that not all test assessors will like. It's a human reading your essay, not a robot, don't buy the argument that they don't make mistakes and don't judge your personal writing style.ANALYZE AN ISSUEFirst, take a look at the "Analyze an Issue" brief from the website:Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the statement and explain your reasoningfor the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider ways in which the statement might or might not hold true and explain how these considerations shape your position.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the recommendation and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, describe specific circumstances in which adopting the recommendation would or would not be advantageous and explain how these examples shape your position.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the claim. In developing and supporting your position, be sure to address the most compelling reasons and/or examples that could be used to challenge your position.Write a response in which you discuss which view more closely aligns with your own position and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should address both of the views presented.Write a response in which you discuss the extent to which you agree or disagree with the claim and the reason on which that claim is based.Write a response in which you discuss your views on the policy and explain your reasoning for the position you take. In developing and supporting your position, you should consider the possible consequences of implementing the policy and explain how these consequences shape your position.Notice how all of them point out whether you agree or disagree, and why. Your first sentence in this section should always state the extent you agree or disagree. The second sentence should always highlight the major reasons why you agree or disagree, and ideally should be in Serial commaformat. "... agree/disagree because of AAA, BBB, and CCC"From those points, you have your paragraphs. Each paragraph should start with defining your exact argument, and be followed by a second sentence that explains how your argument connects/enhances/weakens the issue at hand. Pick arguments that build upon each other and in the summary paragraph, summarize them, and briefly restate your position.ANALYZE AN ARGUMENTTake a look at the model answer on the official site:Analyze an ArgumentWhen you look at the model answer here's the results it gives to these three important questions:Is the claim valid or not? Yes, it may be a valid claim to increase the funding. [Take note that it's very important to separate the validity of the claim and the validity of the reasoning behind the claim.]Is the reasoning behind the claim valid or not? No, the survey may be wrong in its scope, validity, and relevance. [There is almost always a numerical piece of data in the passage that could be attacked or could have its assumptions pointed out.]Are there problems in the logical structure that undermine the argument, but not the claim? Yes, the cause of the smell and low quality of the water has not been established to be able to be "cleaned" effectively, and that no causal link has been established between water quality and usage has been established. [This type of logical structure usually is slippery slope logic. Read below.]Note that the farther you deviate from the evidence at hand and spin your own theories, the more assumptions you make and the weaker your argument becomes. If you look at the score 5 and score 4 essays, their logical attacks are less well explained and less grounded on to the evidence and structure of the argument.Pay attention to Slippery slope structures like the example. A slippery slope generally builds on a long chain of seemingly reasonable assumptions to arrive at unreasonable or poorly supported arguments. Take this example of a mom warning a child not to goto a party, because a party might have bad kids, that might befriend the child in question, and over time might introduce the child to drugs or alcohol as they grow up, that might develop into an addiction, that might then ruin high school grades, then destroy chances at college admissions, and ultimately fail to secure a well paying job, then ruin the child's life. From each jump the logical leap may seem small, but in the end the argument becomes going to party = life ruined. Attacking the statistical validity, the logical connection between one argument and another, the assumptions made on the evidence that determines whether it is circumstantial or irrefutable become the major points of the essay. Avoid the urge to impress the writers by using fancy words and complex grammatical structures. Use the KISS principle and write in straightforward wording to allow your argument to come out with a strong tone.







When I started preparing for GRE, I realized that though I was quite comfortable with Quantitative Section,  I was a total noob at Verbal, be it vocabulary or reading comprehension. I had precisely three months to prepare. I surfed through the net and found that the New GRE was "context intensive" unlike its older version which was "vocabulary intensive". In other words, it was your "depth of knowledge" in vocabulary and not the breadth that mattered, which meant I could cut short my target vocabulary bank from 4000 to 1500 but with a caveat that I had to learn those 1500 words inside out, their usage in context of the sentence, which included not just primary, but secondary and tertiary meanings.Note: Below is the study pattern that I followed and it worked for me, but this is not the only way, you can always modify it as per your style. This is more focused on verbal section as I was fairly comfortable in the quantitative section from the beginning. I hope it proves helpful to you as well.1. First Month: ConditioningAs Norman Lewis puts it, if the Vocabulary Bank is Calcium, then extensive reading is Vitamin D. There is no point in taking more and more calcium if you don't have sufficient Vitamin D to absorb it.First Three Weeks: Work out (don't just read, work it out with pencil) "Word Power Made Easy" by Norman Lewis. It has 45 sessions. Finish 15 sessions per week, roughly 1.5-2 hours per day.In parallel, start reading one newspaper EXTENSIVELY. Read it inside out (of course there are some sections which are just not your type, you can leave out those 2-3 pages). I started reading Economic Times because I had an inclination for business news (and with all those graphs and pie charts, it inadvertently prepared me for Data Interpretation as well) Fourth Week: Time for some extra Vitamin D. Pick up one novel (preferably a motivational one) and read it voraciously, just finish it off in one week and don't forget to mark the new words that you come across while reading. Initially, it will pose some difficulty to those who are not into reading. I myself had a bitter start but a good novel will absorb you into it as you proceed. (I read The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand, it took me 12 days and yes, it really pumped me up)Meanwhile, continue with the newspaper DAILY.So, it's been one month now. Don't expect anything from yourself yet. By this time, you have a cursory vocabulary bank of 400-500 words and through extensive reading of newspaper and a novel, you have conditioned yourself for the next phase.2. Second Month: Hitting the Bull's Eye=>The typical "GRE" way Now it's time to learn some real vocabulary, for the next three weeks, don't think of anything else but vocabulary. There are three different sources for high and medium frequency words that I'm going to mention below, but the good thing is, most of the words from these word lists overlap.First Three Weeks:Sign up at Vocabulary.com. Select the Vocabulary.com Top 1000 and click on "Learn this list" which offers objective type practice questions. It's a good habit to practice these words after signing in as they keep a track of your learning curve and offer you the practice questions accordingly.Join the New GRE group on Facebook. It's the most active GRE group on Facebook right now. It will help you in two ways:Members post random GRE questions on this group, which will give you a rough idea of how the questions are going to be while you are still in the Vocabulary building phase.Secondly, it's a good source to prepare for quantitative section. As long as you are able to solve the math problems being posted over there, you can care-freely concentrate on your verbal preparation. You'll get access to some really USEFUL links.The next source of vocabulary that I referred to was 1500 Words from http://Majortests.com , shuffle between this and http://Vocabulary.com.The last but the "first" source is again, the word list at the end of "Word Power Made Easy". Meanwhile, don't forget to read the newspaper EXTENSIVELY, especially the Editorials.Now you are at a stage where you have a "faint" vocabulary word bank of 1500+ words, an extensive reading experience of a daily newspaper, a high-speed read novel and a fair idea of the level of verbal and quantitative GRE questions through Facebook group. Enough with the "Vocabulary Only" days, now it's time for some real action !!Fourth WeekTime to pick up the GRE preparations books: Now that you have enough vocabulary and reading habit in your armory, its time to use this raw material and shape it to fit the GRE examination pattern. Start with Official GRE by ETS. It will give you a clear idea of the pattern of the exam, but that's all its useful for. Don't expect it to be sufficient for practice problems. This week, just do (work out) this book, read news paper and nothing else. Also, keep a check on your performance while attempting sample problems in this book and identify your weakness: Is it RC or multiple blanks/synonyms3. Third month: Reach the top speed, end the preparation like a sprint racerFirst Two WeeksPick up Manhattan 5 lb, practice ALL the verbal exercises, don't leave a single question unanswered. Frankly speaking, once you are in momentum, these questions are not time consuming, either you know the answer, which is great, or you don't, which you can just look up in the answer key quickly. I stumbled upon the maths section of 5 lb, I liked it, it had all those problems which, though simple, are little tricky and trap you with wrong answer. I practiced quant from this book which prepared me to be ready with these kind of tricky questions. Then you can go through Kaplan GRE practice book, its a small e-book, wouldn't take much time but having finished two books will give you immense confidence and speed in problem solving. Another "thin" book that I quickly skimmed through (I'm telling you, once you are in momentum, these books will pass through in a fly) 1014 Practive Questions for the new GRE-The Princeton Review. You can also pick up books 7 and 8 from Manhattan GRE 1-8 series for RC and Sentence completion respectively.Last Two WeeksIts time to pick up what we have been letting off till now: AWA and Exam Practice Tests. For AWA, I'd read samples from Manhattan AWA. I really like the way they break down the technique to answer the AWA section, which makes it really easy to structure your thought. For more random RC practice with a timer, just visit Codecoax.com and it will pop up an RC for you. Lastly, practice as much full length exams as you can with TIMER. Practice atleast 5. For full length tests, here are some links that you can visit:20 online tests800Score's Free Full Length Revised GRE TestMyGRETutor's 4 free Full Length TestsKaplan's Free Practice Test Options for the GREPrinceton Review: Free GRE Full length testIts easy ! Its doable !! Just do it !!!Originally answered here: How to score 330+ in GRE in 3 months ?







Whee! GRE is the one exam I had a lot of fun preparing for.One year is plenty of time, so you're good to do. How you should go about preparing for the GRE depends a lot on where you stand right now.The Quantitative Reasoning (Math) part of the exam is fairly easy for anyone with an engineering background, so that can be tackled by solving a few practice tests to ensure that your speed and accuracy is adequate. Aim at getting ALL questions correct.The Verbal Reasoning part of the exam is where most Indian students need plenty of preparation. It's important to understand here that the VR part doesn't intend to test just your vocabulary, per se. Rather, it intends to test your reasoning and analytical skills, and vocabulary is just tool. Through comprehension exercises and other questions, the aim is to see how well you can analyze arguments and draw conclusions from a given text.Vocabulary Try and gauge your vocabulary by attempting a few tests given in the Barrons GRE book. If you feel it's decent (you know at least 50% of the words), your job is rather easy. In my case, I could attempt about 65%. If you feel it's lacking, there is this red book (now it is white) called Word Power Made Easy by Norman Lewis that a lot of students seem to love. I have only read it occasionally, so I don't have a strong opinion about it, but its etymology approach is useful, especially if you've never seen language that way. It is good for vocabulary, but you'd better ignore its grammar advice.Try to at least complete the word lists given in Barrons. It's not exhaustive, but it's a fairly good collection. There are about 3500 words in there, and it will take you a fair amount of time if your vocabulary isn't great to begin with. Expect to spend about 3-4 hours per word list.Apart from this, you can check out online resources tooReasoningThis will come largely with practice. As you work on the vocabulary, keep solving practice tests and analyze how many of your errors were not because of vocabulary issues but because of logical / reasoning issues. These are the ones you need to work on. You'll get better with practice, and will also improve your vocabulary alongside. As I said earlier, the GRE is not a test of raw vocabulary. Instead of merely mugging up words, try to put them in context. Get a feel of how those words are used, where those words are used. Get a sense of whether a word is used in an approving sense or a disapproving sense. Try to appreciate the nuances between words that appear very similar in meaning but are still not interchangeable.This is what will help you more, both in life and in the examination.Closing NotesIf you prepare well and prepare properly, you'd come off with a much stronger vocabulary and reasoning ability. This is a useful asset in academia, as well as in everyday life.Students who start with relatively low vocabulary and then ramp up significantly during GRE preparation often suffer from what I call obnoxious-word-usage-syndrome, where an over-enthusiastic attempt to use the newly acquired vocabulary results in prose that is not only pathetic but that often makes little sense. This can be easily remedied if you spend time in understanding exactly how / where a particular word is used (as mentioned above)







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is used by schools in most English speaking countries for admission into the Graduate program. It assesses the verbal, quantitative and writing skills of the student.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution.  So here are some tips to help you.1.  Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most.  Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2.  Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser.  Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3.  Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous.  When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4.  Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay. 5.  Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.Source: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE







GRE has three main components namely verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning and analytical writing. Your entire preparation process should revolve around acquiring good skills on these areas and mastering the concepts required.Some of the things which you can do to get the required concept clarity areQuantitative reasoning:The best part about GRE Math is the absence of things which most of us hate in Math - The integral calculus, trigonometry and other complicated stuff. GRE Math is mostly things which you learned in junior/ high school - Things like interger properties, word problems (rate of work, speed, probability etc) which can be solved with basic common sense. Not much beyond that.What makes the GRE so tricky is the interpretation of the questions part. Once you figure out what the question is asking, the math involved is definitely easier than what you faced in your high school. In fact, it is more fun as you don't need to write down each and every step and show your teacher on how you arrived at your answer. You just need to pick an answer. In short, the math section just tests your ability to reason with numbers.Verbal reasoning:Verbal reasoning section is even more simple with there being only 3 question types - text completion, critical reasoning and reading comprehension. The preparation process should be fully focused on knowing specific strategies for cracking these questions rather than generic preparation advocated.For example, use of flash cards for learning new words was very helpful in the earlier format of the test where antonyms and analogies were asked and there was more emphasis on rote learning of words. But, the current format focuses more on understanding not only the literal meaning of the words but also the metaphorical use of the word based on the context. For example, while the word 'opaque' literally means 'not transparent', it could also mean 'difficult to interpret or understand' if used in the right context. Similarly, there are no questions asking you to identify any grammar errors. Grammar is important only for your essay writing section. Hence, it makes sense not to rely on these old fashioned methods advocated by coaching institutes but to just keep focusing on the 3 question types.Analytical writing:Analytical writing section asks you to write 2 essays - one on "The Issue" and the other on "The Argument". The major difference here is in the first essay you are asked to take a stand on a complex issue whereas in the second essay you are asked to dissect the logic behind an already taken stand or position.How do I prepare for this? You just need to follow a simple routine and you are guaranteed to score well in this section.Choose - Structure - Write - Compare - Improve - ChooseStep 1: You choose a topic where you already have some well written sample essays. You can pick these up either in the official site or from the many blogs available online.Step 2: Come up with a structure and an outline.Step 3: Write an essay by developing the structure and the outline.Step 4: Compare it with other essays written on the topic.Step 5: Rewrite your essay to improve it.Step 6: Go to Step 1.--------------------If you do all of the above, you are going to definitely score well on your GRE.Check out Magnus Prep's GRE Program if you are looking for some great mentors to help with your GRE preparation.Cheers!







I’ve been tutoring the GRE for a number of years. The below is inspired by the many sessions I’ve had with students, many of whom have gone on to do very well on the GRE. A lot of it is also specific to the revised GRE, which made its debut in August 2011.  1. Use official material When preparing for the GRE, no questions prepare you better than the ones written by ETS, which is responsible for writing the questions you will see test day. As much as possible, stick to the questions in the Official Guide to the GRE so you can wrap your mind around how the test writers want you to reason.  You may not think that it makes that much of a difference, but many publishers out there have questions that require you to make certain leaps of logic—or employ questionable logic—that you will never have to do on the actual test. Then there is the fact that many questions simply aren’t as difficult or nuanced as the questions you’ll see test day. This is a problem many students encounter when using Kaplan—you are essentially taking a dumbed down version of the GRE, with often poorly constructed questions to boot.  2. Take practice tests There is no better way to prepare for test day than actually taking a mock test. You will train yourself to sit for three plus hours staring at a screen, as you are pummeled by an onslaught of GRE problems.  If possible, use only the official tests, found in the Official Guide to the New GRE. There are four such tests—two that comes with the book, and two that are computer-based and come with the CD that is part of the book. Stagger these out  over the four weeks you are prepping, so that there are no fewer than five days between tests and no more than ten days. If you are studying longer, you might also want to consider Manhattan GRE tests (see below).  Finally, practice tests will allow you to better assess your strengths and weaknesses, and help inform your study sessions in between tests.  3. Focus on weaknesses Make sure not to get carried away developing those areas in which you already excel. For instance, if you are generally strong at math problem solving questions, but if you dislike Data Interpretation (that’s the section with all the graphs), then the last thing you want to do is avoid that section. Instead make it a priority to become confident and effective at all questions relating to Data Interpretation.   4. Use the best material While official material is clearly the best prep out there, it doesn’t necessarily provide the most effective strategies. You may want to take a look at Princeton Review for helpful big picture strategies. As for specific strategies for almost every aspect of the GRE—from permutations to convoluted paragraph arguments—the Manhattan GRE books (MGRE) are the best. MGRE also has six practice tests that mimic the actual test very well (though this more so with math than with verbal). For more practice on the online format, Magoosh also offers questions that are similar to--and often more difficult--than those found on the actual test. (I should probably mention that I work for Magoosh :))  Of course there is a lot of material out there that should be avoided, especially in terms of practice content. Here is a helpful breakdown: 2013 GRE Book Reviews







GRE has three main components namely verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning and analytical writing. Your entire preparation process should revolve around acquiring good skills on these areas and mastering the concepts required.Some of the things which you can do to get the required concept clarity areQuantitative reasoning:The best part about GRE Math is the absence of things which most of us hate in Math - The integral calculus, trigonometry and other complicated stuff. GRE Math is mostly things which you learned in junior/ high school - Things like interger properties, word problems (rate of work, speed, probability etc) which can be solved with basic common sense. Not much beyond that.What makes the GRE so tricky is the interpretation of the questions part. Once you figure out what the question is asking, the math involved is definitely easier than what you faced in your high school. In fact, it is more fun as you don't need to write down each and every step and show your teacher on how you arrived at your answer. You just need to pick an answer. In short, the math section just tests your ability to reason with numbers.Verbal reasoning:Verbal reasoning section is even more simple with there being only 3 question types - text completion, critical reasoning and reading comprehension. The preparation process should be fully focused on knowing specific strategies for cracking these questions rather than generic preparation advocated.For example, use of flash cards for learning new words was very helpful in the earlier format of the test where antonyms and analogies were asked and there was more emphasis on rote learning of words. But, the current format focuses more on understanding not only the literal meaning of the words but also the metaphorical use of the word based on the context. For example, while the word 'opaque' literally means 'not transparent', it could also mean 'difficult to interpret or understand' if used in the right context. Similarly, there are no questions asking you to identify any grammar errors. Grammar is important only for your essay writing section. Hence, it makes sense not to rely on these old fashioned methods advocated by coaching institutes but to just keep focusing on the 3 question types.Analytical writing:Analytical writing section asks you to write 2 essays - one on "The Issue" and the other on "The Argument". The major difference here is in the first essay you are asked to take a stand on a complex issue whereas in the second essay you are asked to dissect the logic behind an already taken stand or position.How do I prepare for this? You just need to follow a simple routine and you are guaranteed to score well in this section.Choose - Structure - Write - Compare - Improve - ChooseStep 1: You choose a topic where you already have some well written sample essays. You can pick these up either in the official site or from the many blogs available online.Step 2: Come up with a structure and an outline.Step 3: Write an essay by developing the structure and the outline.Step 4: Compare it with other essays written on the topic.Step 5: Rewrite your essay to improve it.Step 6: Go to Step 1.--------------------If you do all of the above, you are going to definitely score well on your GRE.Check out Magnus Prep's GRE Program if you are looking for some great mentors to help with your GRE preparation.Cheers!







When I started preparing for GRE, I realized that though I was quite comfortable with Quantitative Section,  I was a total noob at Verbal, be it vocabulary or reading comprehension. I had precisely three months to prepare. I surfed through the net and found that the New GRE was "context intensive" unlike its older version which was "vocabulary intensive". In other words, it was your "depth of knowledge" in vocabulary and not the breadth that mattered, which meant I could cut short my target vocabulary bank from 4000 to 1500 but with a caveat that I had to learn those 1500 words inside out, their usage in context of the sentence, which included not just primary, but secondary and tertiary meanings.Note: Below is the study pattern that I followed and it worked for me, but this is not the only way, you can always modify it as per your style. This is more focused on verbal section as I was fairly comfortable in the quantitative section from the beginning. I hope it proves helpful to you as well.1. First Month: ConditioningAs Norman Lewis puts it, if the Vocabulary Bank is Calcium, then extensive reading is Vitamin D. There is no point in taking more and more calcium if you don't have sufficient Vitamin D to absorb it.First Three Weeks: Work out (don't just read, work it out with pencil) "Word Power Made Easy" by Norman Lewis. It has 45 sessions. Finish 15 sessions per week, roughly 1.5-2 hours per day.In parallel, start reading one newspaper EXTENSIVELY. Read it inside out (of course there are some sections which are just not your type, you can leave out those 2-3 pages). I started reading Economic Times because I had an inclination for business news (and with all those graphs and pie charts, it inadvertently prepared me for Data Interpretation as well) Fourth Week: Time for some extra Vitamin D. Pick up one novel (preferably a motivational one) and read it voraciously, just finish it off in one week and don't forget to mark the new words that you come across while reading. Initially, it will pose some difficulty to those who are not into reading. I myself had a bitter start but a good novel will absorb you into it as you proceed. (I read The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand, it took me 12 days and yes, it really pumped me up)Meanwhile, continue with the newspaper DAILY.So, it's been one month now. Don't expect anything from yourself yet. By this time, you have a cursory vocabulary bank of 400-500 words and through extensive reading of newspaper and a novel, you have conditioned yourself for the next phase.2. Second Month: Hitting the Bull's Eye=>The typical "GRE" way Now it's time to learn some real vocabulary, for the next three weeks, don't think of anything else but vocabulary. There are three different sources for high and medium frequency words that I'm going to mention below, but the good thing is, most of the words from these word lists overlap.First Three Weeks:Sign up at Vocabulary.com. Select the Vocabulary.com Top 1000 and click on "Learn this list" which offers objective type practice questions. It's a good habit to practice these words after signing in as they keep a track of your learning curve and offer you the practice questions accordingly.Join the New GRE group on Facebook. It's the most active GRE group on Facebook right now. It will help you in two ways:Members post random GRE questions on this group, which will give you a rough idea of how the questions are going to be while you are still in the Vocabulary building phase.Secondly, it's a good source to prepare for quantitative section. As long as you are able to solve the math problems being posted over there, you can care-freely concentrate on your verbal preparation. You'll get access to some really USEFUL links.The next source of vocabulary that I referred to was 1500 Words from http://Majortests.com , shuffle between this and http://Vocabulary.com.The last but the "first" source is again, the word list at the end of "Word Power Made Easy". Meanwhile, don't forget to read the newspaper EXTENSIVELY, especially the Editorials.Now you are at a stage where you have a "faint" vocabulary word bank of 1500+ words, an extensive reading experience of a daily newspaper, a high-speed read novel and a fair idea of the level of verbal and quantitative GRE questions through Facebook group. Enough with the "Vocabulary Only" days, now it's time for some real action !!Fourth WeekTime to pick up the GRE preparations books: Now that you have enough vocabulary and reading habit in your armory, its time to use this raw material and shape it to fit the GRE examination pattern. Start with Official GRE by ETS. It will give you a clear idea of the pattern of the exam, but that's all its useful for. Don't expect it to be sufficient for practice problems. This week, just do (work out) this book, read news paper and nothing else. Also, keep a check on your performance while attempting sample problems in this book and identify your weakness: Is it RC or multiple blanks/synonyms3. Third month: Reach the top speed, end the preparation like a sprint racerFirst Two WeeksPick up Manhattan 5 lb, practice ALL the verbal exercises, don't leave a single question unanswered. Frankly speaking, once you are in momentum, these questions are not time consuming, either you know the answer, which is great, or you don't, which you can just look up in the answer key quickly. I stumbled upon the maths section of 5 lb, I liked it, it had all those problems which, though simple, are little tricky and trap you with wrong answer. I practiced quant from this book which prepared me to be ready with these kind of tricky questions. Then you can go through Kaplan GRE practice book, its a small e-book, wouldn't take much time but having finished two books will give you immense confidence and speed in problem solving. Another "thin" book that I quickly skimmed through (I'm telling you, once you are in momentum, these books will pass through in a fly) 1014 Practive Questions for the new GRE-The Princeton Review. You can also pick up books 7 and 8 from Manhattan GRE 1-8 series for RC and Sentence completion respectively.Last Two WeeksIts time to pick up what we have been letting off till now: AWA and Exam Practice Tests. For AWA, I'd read samples from Manhattan AWA. I really like the way they break down the technique to answer the AWA section, which makes it really easy to structure your thought. For more random RC practice with a timer, just visit Codecoax.com and it will pop up an RC for you. Lastly, practice as much full length exams as you can with TIMER. Practice atleast 5. For full length tests, here are some links that you can visit:20 online tests800Score's Free Full Length Revised GRE TestMyGRETutor's 4 free Full Length TestsKaplan's Free Practice Test Options for the GREPrinceton Review: Free GRE Full length testIts easy ! Its doable !! Just do it !!!Originally answered here: How to score 330+ in GRE in 3 months ?







Quant - 170 Verbal- 164 AWA- 4.5/6I recently gave my GRE on 28th September 2017. Although I started my preparation 3 months prior to the examination I could not continue due to the fact that I am also preparing for other competitive exams. Also I was put down by Chicken pox and Typhoid for a month. Effectively I had little more than a month to prepare for the test. So I was quite surprised with the result that I got as you can see above. Here is how I prepared for my GRE test.Study Material -Magoosh GRE prep account (most important)Magoosh Vocabulary builder (words flashcard app)Manhattan prep GRE 5 lb. book of gre practice problemsManhattan GRE Prep Reading comprehension and EssayOfficial Guide for GRE by ETS (all three books)Various news sites such as The New Yorker , The Economist etc. ( as prescribed on Magoosh GRE blog).Study Plan -I started my preparation at the start of the month of July . As I told earlier I am also studying for other competitive exams so I could’nt devote much time to GRE. I studied for maximum 3 hours each day. I also did’nt study according to any plan. Some days it was only vocab building by flashcards and reading articles. Some days it was practicing problems Some days divided between both. Also I watched Magoosh GRE video lessons and I can say they were very useful.This is a tip for students from engineering background preparing for GRE. Don’t ignore the quantitative section even if it seems easy to you. Practice it as you would the verbal section.After recovering from my maladies I had approx 5 weeks to prepare for GRE. So I decided to tidy up my routine soI increased my GRE study time to 5–6 hours per dayIn a day I would first go through my magoosh flashcards and try to learn atleast 30 new words per day and also revise a few old words. Also I made a point to read and understand atleast 2 news articles per day .Then I would practice quantitative for approx 1 hour . I generally used timed custom practice test in Magoosh GRE account.For next 2 hours I would go through practicing the verbal section and writing essays.I learnt how to read the paragraphs swiftly and in detail. Again Magoosh video lessons were very important in this regard.Unfortunately I was not able to give any full practice test due to my surroundings but I would recommend everyone to give atleast one of them.My main focus was on improving my vocab by learning new words , their meaning and context of their uses as it appeared to me to be very useful for Sentence equivalence and Text completion questions. Again and I cannot stress this enough watching Magoosh video lessons was very important.I practiced and practiced as much as my schedule allowed me to.On the day of the examinationReach the centre atleast 1 hour prior to the commencement of test as there are plenty of verification to be done before the examination. Also carry a water bottle with you. GRE is very attentively conducted examination and staff of testing centres are very vigilant. If you have any problem feel free to ask for their help.GRE is a very easy exam as you can see in my case , with a directed and concentrated approach you can score very well ( 330+) within a relatively short amount of prep time.Be well , Be prepared and best of luck.







I’ve been tutoring the GRE for a number of years. The below is inspired by the many sessions I’ve had with students, many of whom have gone on to do very well on the GRE. A lot of it is also specific to the revised GRE, which made its debut in August 2011.  1. Use official material When preparing for the GRE, no questions prepare you better than the ones written by ETS, which is responsible for writing the questions you will see test day. As much as possible, stick to the questions in the Official Guide to the GRE so you can wrap your mind around how the test writers want you to reason.  You may not think that it makes that much of a difference, but many publishers out there have questions that require you to make certain leaps of logic—or employ questionable logic—that you will never have to do on the actual test. Then there is the fact that many questions simply aren’t as difficult or nuanced as the questions you’ll see test day. This is a problem many students encounter when using Kaplan—you are essentially taking a dumbed down version of the GRE, with often poorly constructed questions to boot.  2. Take practice tests There is no better way to prepare for test day than actually taking a mock test. You will train yourself to sit for three plus hours staring at a screen, as you are pummeled by an onslaught of GRE problems.  If possible, use only the official tests, found in the Official Guide to the New GRE. There are four such tests—two that comes with the book, and two that are computer-based and come with the CD that is part of the book. Stagger these out  over the four weeks you are prepping, so that there are no fewer than five days between tests and no more than ten days. If you are studying longer, you might also want to consider Manhattan GRE tests (see below).  Finally, practice tests will allow you to better assess your strengths and weaknesses, and help inform your study sessions in between tests.  3. Focus on weaknesses Make sure not to get carried away developing those areas in which you already excel. For instance, if you are generally strong at math problem solving questions, but if you dislike Data Interpretation (that’s the section with all the graphs), then the last thing you want to do is avoid that section. Instead make it a priority to become confident and effective at all questions relating to Data Interpretation.   4. Use the best material While official material is clearly the best prep out there, it doesn’t necessarily provide the most effective strategies. You may want to take a look at Princeton Review for helpful big picture strategies. As for specific strategies for almost every aspect of the GRE—from permutations to convoluted paragraph arguments—the Manhattan GRE books (MGRE) are the best. MGRE also has six practice tests that mimic the actual test very well (though this more so with math than with verbal). For more practice on the online format, Magoosh also offers questions that are similar to--and often more difficult--than those found on the actual test. (I should probably mention that I work for Magoosh :))  Of course there is a lot of material out there that should be avoided, especially in terms of practice content. Here is a helpful breakdown: 2013 GRE Book Reviews







I did my prep in a week. So two months is a solid amount of time.First familiarize yourself with the test pattern. The Magoosh prep videos are really good for it. Know what the sections are, approximately how much time to spend on each question and stick to it. You'll get two free practice test from ETS itself (using the Powerprep software). Go through the untimed section once and also give one of the tests (timed). So you'll have a basic idea of how your test will be. The GRE is a bit longer in duration than many other exams ( about 4 hrs). You should be able to keep a cool head in these 4 hours. Apart from the ETS practice tests you can find 3 other standardized tests (free) i.e Manhattan, Kaplan and Princeton GRE Practice Test. Or you can always buy the test package from one of the reputed institutes, but do use the three aforementioned tests. If you buy the Official GRE ETS guide, you'll get two more tests (paper-based), so I strongly recommend you get it.You will have 6 sections on the test. First you will face the AWA (Analytical) Section. Out of the 5 sections left, only 4 of them will be used for calculating your score for the test. The other one is an experimental section. They say that ETS has implemented this in order to gauge the general performance of the test takers and also for analysis for their future test papers. We will not know which is the experimental section so please do not waste any sort of time trying to figure out which one is the experimental section.We do know that after the AWA section, you will have the Quantitative and Verbal sections in a random order. The scores calculated will be taken from 2 Verbal sections and 2 Quantitative Sections. So it is important that you perform well in all the sections. You will have an optional 10-minutes break after the first three sections.So now you've given a practice test and you can roughly identify the area you are weak at. Lets tackle the Verbal section first.(As this is a nightmare to most of us)The key to scoring a 160+ in this section is a really strong vocabulary. Yes there are numerous word lists available, but don't start with them first. The Magoosh GRE Flashcards app is an absolutely brilliant foundation builder. Download the app and keep going through the words. Do it everyday or whenever you get 15mins of free time. You can also find it online in case you don't have a smartphone. It covers about 1000 words that will give you enough ammo for test. But this will probably not cover all the words that will appear in your GRE. You can then proceed with the word lists. Also two things that helped me here were 'Word Power Made Easy' and the 'Magoosh Vocab Wednesday Videos' (I strongly recommend you use the videos as much as possible). WPME equips you with a sound understanding of etymology and makes you learn new words with ease. Although it requires some commitment and patience, it is recommended only if you have too much time on your hands !Possessing a large vocab is like having a machine gun with tons of ammo. But its of no use if you do not know how to fire the gun ! You need to have the ability to understand the question clearly. You need to keep your train of thought connected as you read thorough the question and recognize what the question is asking for (this for all types RC, Sentence Completion). Also in the Reading Comprehension you might come across huge ones with relatively tough questions. The only way to fire the gun properly now is by practice. Practice practice and practice. The Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problems, Princeton GRE material, Kaplan GRE material, Manhattan GRE material are all really helpful for the amount of questions they have all together. Inbox me if you need any sort of material. I can share it over Google Drive. Don't be disheartened if your answers are mostly incorrect. Read the explanations given for the answers and understand how to approach the question. I was terrible at the beginning, but trust me the more you practice, the better you will become. You have to keep the factor of time in mind too. Remember all the questions in the GRE have the same value. If you are not able to answer the question mark it and move on to the next one. Just be sure to get back to it later. If you don't have the time for it, might as well guess the answer blindly ! You have a decent amount of time so you should be able to cover a lot of material.Next the Quantitative section. This is relatively the easier section and a score of 170 is pretty much possible. I recommend to buy the 'ETS Official Guide to the GRE® revised General Test, Second Edition'. Read through the Quantitative Prep Section throughly. It covers all the topics and concepts that you need to know for the GRE. The official guide also comes with two additional practice tests apart from the Powerprep software, that are really good. ETS prepares the GRE examination that you will be appearing for, so there is no better material (for both verbal and quant) that will give you an idea of how the questions will be. Once you've read the concepts go back to the mantra of practicing. Practice practice and practice. Remember the essence of these question will be simple. But the question will not look so. It will be tricky and manipulative (pretty much like some of our "friends"). You should be able to clearly understand what the question is asking for and work on it accordingly. Practicing tons and loads of questions will help here. Again the Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problems, Princeton GRE material, Kaplan GRE material, Manhattan GRE material are all helpful for the amount of questions they possess. Do inbox me if you need any material. Keep practicing meticulously. Don't give up if you aren't able to get the correct answers. Read through the explanation and understand how to approach the question. You can easily achieve a score of 165+. Go back to the areas you find tough, read through the concepts and practice more questions. For the multiple answers be sure to look at all the options. Few of the Data Interpretation questions will be straightforward and the others will be simple but lengthy. The ETS Material will give you a good idea of the various graphs and plots that may appear on your test day. Also get a good grip over the 'Quartiles' concept which is there in the ETS material. Grasping the concepts should not take much time but you have to apply them correctly in the examination. Commit and practice till you reach a point where no matter what the question is in front of you, you should be able to attempt it. Carefully see what the question is asking for and answer accordingly. Practice is the key for a high score in the Quant section too ! (If you are an Indian student you will have less difficulty in understanding the quant concepts as most of the topics will be covered in high school math. But without practice, the questions can even trick the highly intelligent students) Next, the AWA Section. This is actually the first section that you will face in the GRE. Now, I am not really one to give you advice for this section as I did pretty bad here. Don't get me wrong. I love absolutely writing (though I am not really good with spellings). Anything from flash fiction to poetry. But I like to do it at my own pace. The GRE however gives you only 30 mins for each essay hence I wasn't at much ease. Also I did not practice for this section at all. (No wonder I didn't score well). You'll face two essays; the 'Issue Task' and the 'Argument Task'. The "Issue Task" presents an opinion on an issue of general interest followed by specific instructions on how to respond to that issue. You have to evaluate the issue, consider its complexities and develop an argument with reasons and examples to support your views. The "Argument Task" requires you to evaluate a given argument according to specific instructions. You will need to consider the logical soundness of the argument rather than agree or disagree with the position it presents.I do know that reading through numerous essay (especially the ones that scored a 6 or 5) will give you the approach strategy. The topic pool can be found on the ETS website so do give them a read. You have loads of time, so you should be able to have a planned out method to tackle this section. Also look at the 'SparkNotes GRE section" online to find good tips for approaching this section. I've read on various blogs that for the engineering programs the schools do not give much importance to the AWA score. But if you are looking to pursue a grad program in literature or journalism, you'll need a real good AWA score.The Practice Tests.You should have atleast 5 Practice tests (the free ones I mentioned before) in hand and space them out according to your convenience and how comfortable you are with the topics. If you buy the Official ETS guide you will have two additional tests (paper-based) so I would definitely suggest you buy the guide. There is no fixed timetable for giving the tests. You give it as per your comfort level. The score you get on the ETS Practice test is quite a good approximation of what you will get on the test day so give one of the ETS Practice test a few days before your GRE. Now I had a week's time so I gave one test a day. I was able to gauge my performance after each test and scope out what I needed to work on. Do look into the explanations of the answers. Remember you should try and avoid making the same mistake twice. Keep track of your mistakes by writing them down and glance at them later before you give another test.Finally, the Test Day Section. Yes as silly as it sounds, the test day matters the most. Your nerves on the test day can either boost your performance or wreck your examination. You've done all the practice you can and now its your time to perform . Do get a good amount of sleep the night before. Keep all the required IDs with you. Reach the test center earlier than your reporting time. Carry along a small snack and a bottle of water. Keep your cool throughout the examination. If you are stuck and unable to proceed, take a deep breath and relax. It helps ! You have done loads of practice you will be able to crack that silly question but this time with a calmer state of mind. It is very easy to lose patience if you feel are't doing well but keep it together for these 4 hours and you should be able to achieve an well rounded score. Don't give up if one of your sections didn't go well you have the other sections to make up for it. But if you've practiced enough you will never have to be in that position ! Also don't worry about which section is the experimental section. As far as you are concerned, you have to do well in all the sections. Do take the 10 mins break after 3 sections to come back with a refreshed mind.If you don't get a good score or atleast what you aimed, remember GRE is not the end ! I could not get the score I aimed for and initally I was disappointed. Soon I realized that its really of no use worrying about it. What you've got is what you've got. If needed you can appear for the GRE again within 21 days, though I wouldn't recommend it (unless you got a really bad score and are willing to pay the fee for writing the examination again). I prepared exactly how I have described in the above paragraphs. I score 328 and 331 in my last two mock tests. So I was pretty confident going into the examination. But the test day nerves got to me. I was fumbling with words in the AWA section. Quantitative section I did well, but I was aiming for a perfect 170 and fell short by 3 marks. During one of the Verbal sections I had the sudden urge to pee. I had about 8 questions left with 10 minutes on the clock. Though I begged the invigilators, I was not allowed to go to the restroom till the 10 mins break. And that pretty much broke my momentum. So I came back to the rest of the sections with a cool mind, a real desire for revenge (too much drama, I know !) and breezed though them with much more ease. Hopefully the nerves won't get to you ! Best of luck in cracking the GRE ! I'll be glad to help if you need more guidance. Let us know how your exam goes. Cheers !Sorry for the long post ! Here's a Potato :(Image source : Tumblr)







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is used by schools in most English speaking countries for admission into the Graduate program. It assesses the verbal, quantitative and writing skills of the student.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution.  So here are some tips to help you.1.  Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most.  Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2.  Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser.  Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3.  Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous.  When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4.  Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay. 5.  Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.Source: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE







GRE has three main components namely verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning and analytical writing. Your entire preparation process should revolve around acquiring good skills on these areas and mastering the concepts required.Some of the things which you can do to get the required concept clarity areQuantitative reasoning:The best part about GRE Math is the absence of things which most of us hate in Math - The integral calculus, trigonometry and other complicated stuff. GRE Math is mostly things which you learned in junior/ high school - Things like interger properties, word problems (rate of work, speed, probability etc) which can be solved with basic common sense. Not much beyond that.What makes the GRE so tricky is the interpretation of the questions part. Once you figure out what the question is asking, the math involved is definitely easier than what you faced in your high school. In fact, it is more fun as you don't need to write down each and every step and show your teacher on how you arrived at your answer. You just need to pick an answer. In short, the math section just tests your ability to reason with numbers.Verbal reasoning:Verbal reasoning section is even more simple with there being only 3 question types - text completion, critical reasoning and reading comprehension. The preparation process should be fully focused on knowing specific strategies for cracking these questions rather than generic preparation advocated.For example, use of flash cards for learning new words was very helpful in the earlier format of the test where antonyms and analogies were asked and there was more emphasis on rote learning of words. But, the current format focuses more on understanding not only the literal meaning of the words but also the metaphorical use of the word based on the context. For example, while the word 'opaque' literally means 'not transparent', it could also mean 'difficult to interpret or understand' if used in the right context. Similarly, there are no questions asking you to identify any grammar errors. Grammar is important only for your essay writing section. Hence, it makes sense not to rely on these old fashioned methods advocated by coaching institutes but to just keep focusing on the 3 question types.Analytical writing:Analytical writing section asks you to write 2 essays - one on "The Issue" and the other on "The Argument". The major difference here is in the first essay you are asked to take a stand on a complex issue whereas in the second essay you are asked to dissect the logic behind an already taken stand or position.How do I prepare for this? You just need to follow a simple routine and you are guaranteed to score well in this section.Choose - Structure - Write - Compare - Improve - ChooseStep 1: You choose a topic where you already have some well written sample essays. You can pick these up either in the official site or from the many blogs available online.Step 2: Come up with a structure and an outline.Step 3: Write an essay by developing the structure and the outline.Step 4: Compare it with other essays written on the topic.Step 5: Rewrite your essay to improve it.Step 6: Go to Step 1.--------------------If you do all of the above, you are going to definitely score well on your GRE.Check out Magnus Prep's GRE Program if you are looking for some great mentors to help with your GRE preparation.Cheers!







When I started preparing for GRE, I realized that though I was quite comfortable with Quantitative Section,  I was a total noob at Verbal, be it vocabulary or reading comprehension. I had precisely three months to prepare. I surfed through the net and found that the New GRE was "context intensive" unlike its older version which was "vocabulary intensive". In other words, it was your "depth of knowledge" in vocabulary and not the breadth that mattered, which meant I could cut short my target vocabulary bank from 4000 to 1500 but with a caveat that I had to learn those 1500 words inside out, their usage in context of the sentence, which included not just primary, but secondary and tertiary meanings.Note: Below is the study pattern that I followed and it worked for me, but this is not the only way, you can always modify it as per your style. This is more focused on verbal section as I was fairly comfortable in the quantitative section from the beginning. I hope it proves helpful to you as well.1. First Month: ConditioningAs Norman Lewis puts it, if the Vocabulary Bank is Calcium, then extensive reading is Vitamin D. There is no point in taking more and more calcium if you don't have sufficient Vitamin D to absorb it.First Three Weeks: Work out (don't just read, work it out with pencil) "Word Power Made Easy" by Norman Lewis. It has 45 sessions. Finish 15 sessions per week, roughly 1.5-2 hours per day.In parallel, start reading one newspaper EXTENSIVELY. Read it inside out (of course there are some sections which are just not your type, you can leave out those 2-3 pages). I started reading Economic Times because I had an inclination for business news (and with all those graphs and pie charts, it inadvertently prepared me for Data Interpretation as well) Fourth Week: Time for some extra Vitamin D. Pick up one novel (preferably a motivational one) and read it voraciously, just finish it off in one week and don't forget to mark the new words that you come across while reading. Initially, it will pose some difficulty to those who are not into reading. I myself had a bitter start but a good novel will absorb you into it as you proceed. (I read The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand, it took me 12 days and yes, it really pumped me up)Meanwhile, continue with the newspaper DAILY.So, it's been one month now. Don't expect anything from yourself yet. By this time, you have a cursory vocabulary bank of 400-500 words and through extensive reading of newspaper and a novel, you have conditioned yourself for the next phase.2. Second Month: Hitting the Bull's Eye=>The typical "GRE" way Now it's time to learn some real vocabulary, for the next three weeks, don't think of anything else but vocabulary. There are three different sources for high and medium frequency words that I'm going to mention below, but the good thing is, most of the words from these word lists overlap.First Three Weeks:Sign up at Vocabulary.com. Select the Vocabulary.com Top 1000 and click on "Learn this list" which offers objective type practice questions. It's a good habit to practice these words after signing in as they keep a track of your learning curve and offer you the practice questions accordingly.Join the New GRE group on Facebook. It's the most active GRE group on Facebook right now. It will help you in two ways:Members post random GRE questions on this group, which will give you a rough idea of how the questions are going to be while you are still in the Vocabulary building phase.Secondly, it's a good source to prepare for quantitative section. As long as you are able to solve the math problems being posted over there, you can care-freely concentrate on your verbal preparation. You'll get access to some really USEFUL links.The next source of vocabulary that I referred to was 1500 Words from http://Majortests.com , shuffle between this and http://Vocabulary.com.The last but the "first" source is again, the word list at the end of "Word Power Made Easy". Meanwhile, don't forget to read the newspaper EXTENSIVELY, especially the Editorials.Now you are at a stage where you have a "faint" vocabulary word bank of 1500+ words, an extensive reading experience of a daily newspaper, a high-speed read novel and a fair idea of the level of verbal and quantitative GRE questions through Facebook group. Enough with the "Vocabulary Only" days, now it's time for some real action !!Fourth WeekTime to pick up the GRE preparations books: Now that you have enough vocabulary and reading habit in your armory, its time to use this raw material and shape it to fit the GRE examination pattern. Start with Official GRE by ETS. It will give you a clear idea of the pattern of the exam, but that's all its useful for. Don't expect it to be sufficient for practice problems. This week, just do (work out) this book, read news paper and nothing else. Also, keep a check on your performance while attempting sample problems in this book and identify your weakness: Is it RC or multiple blanks/synonyms3. Third month: Reach the top speed, end the preparation like a sprint racerFirst Two WeeksPick up Manhattan 5 lb, practice ALL the verbal exercises, don't leave a single question unanswered. Frankly speaking, once you are in momentum, these questions are not time consuming, either you know the answer, which is great, or you don't, which you can just look up in the answer key quickly. I stumbled upon the maths section of 5 lb, I liked it, it had all those problems which, though simple, are little tricky and trap you with wrong answer. I practiced quant from this book which prepared me to be ready with these kind of tricky questions. Then you can go through Kaplan GRE practice book, its a small e-book, wouldn't take much time but having finished two books will give you immense confidence and speed in problem solving. Another "thin" book that I quickly skimmed through (I'm telling you, once you are in momentum, these books will pass through in a fly) 1014 Practive Questions for the new GRE-The Princeton Review. You can also pick up books 7 and 8 from Manhattan GRE 1-8 series for RC and Sentence completion respectively.Last Two WeeksIts time to pick up what we have been letting off till now: AWA and Exam Practice Tests. For AWA, I'd read samples from Manhattan AWA. I really like the way they break down the technique to answer the AWA section, which makes it really easy to structure your thought. For more random RC practice with a timer, just visit Codecoax.com and it will pop up an RC for you. Lastly, practice as much full length exams as you can with TIMER. Practice atleast 5. For full length tests, here are some links that you can visit:20 online tests800Score's Free Full Length Revised GRE TestMyGRETutor's 4 free Full Length TestsKaplan's Free Practice Test Options for the GREPrinceton Review: Free GRE Full length testIts easy ! Its doable !! Just do it !!!Originally answered here: How to score 330+ in GRE in 3 months ?







Quant - 170 Verbal- 164 AWA- 4.5/6I recently gave my GRE on 28th September 2017. Although I started my preparation 3 months prior to the examination I could not continue due to the fact that I am also preparing for other competitive exams. Also I was put down by Chicken pox and Typhoid for a month. Effectively I had little more than a month to prepare for the test. So I was quite surprised with the result that I got as you can see above. Here is how I prepared for my GRE test.Study Material -Magoosh GRE prep account (most important)Magoosh Vocabulary builder (words flashcard app)Manhattan prep GRE 5 lb. book of gre practice problemsManhattan GRE Prep Reading comprehension and EssayOfficial Guide for GRE by ETS (all three books)Various news sites such as The New Yorker , The Economist etc. ( as prescribed on Magoosh GRE blog).Study Plan -I started my preparation at the start of the month of July . As I told earlier I am also studying for other competitive exams so I could’nt devote much time to GRE. I studied for maximum 3 hours each day. I also did’nt study according to any plan. Some days it was only vocab building by flashcards and reading articles. Some days it was practicing problems Some days divided between both. Also I watched Magoosh GRE video lessons and I can say they were very useful.This is a tip for students from engineering background preparing for GRE. Don’t ignore the quantitative section even if it seems easy to you. Practice it as you would the verbal section.After recovering from my maladies I had approx 5 weeks to prepare for GRE. So I decided to tidy up my routine soI increased my GRE study time to 5–6 hours per dayIn a day I would first go through my magoosh flashcards and try to learn atleast 30 new words per day and also revise a few old words. Also I made a point to read and understand atleast 2 news articles per day .Then I would practice quantitative for approx 1 hour . I generally used timed custom practice test in Magoosh GRE account.For next 2 hours I would go through practicing the verbal section and writing essays.I learnt how to read the paragraphs swiftly and in detail. Again Magoosh video lessons were very important in this regard.Unfortunately I was not able to give any full practice test due to my surroundings but I would recommend everyone to give atleast one of them.My main focus was on improving my vocab by learning new words , their meaning and context of their uses as it appeared to me to be very useful for Sentence equivalence and Text completion questions. Again and I cannot stress this enough watching Magoosh video lessons was very important.I practiced and practiced as much as my schedule allowed me to.On the day of the examinationReach the centre atleast 1 hour prior to the commencement of test as there are plenty of verification to be done before the examination. Also carry a water bottle with you. GRE is very attentively conducted examination and staff of testing centres are very vigilant. If you have any problem feel free to ask for their help.GRE is a very easy exam as you can see in my case , with a directed and concentrated approach you can score very well ( 330+) within a relatively short amount of prep time.Be well , Be prepared and best of luck.







I’ve been tutoring the GRE for a number of years. The below is inspired by the many sessions I’ve had with students, many of whom have gone on to do very well on the GRE. A lot of it is also specific to the revised GRE, which made its debut in August 2011.  1. Use official material When preparing for the GRE, no questions prepare you better than the ones written by ETS, which is responsible for writing the questions you will see test day. As much as possible, stick to the questions in the Official Guide to the GRE so you can wrap your mind around how the test writers want you to reason.  You may not think that it makes that much of a difference, but many publishers out there have questions that require you to make certain leaps of logic—or employ questionable logic—that you will never have to do on the actual test. Then there is the fact that many questions simply aren’t as difficult or nuanced as the questions you’ll see test day. This is a problem many students encounter when using Kaplan—you are essentially taking a dumbed down version of the GRE, with often poorly constructed questions to boot.  2. Take practice tests There is no better way to prepare for test day than actually taking a mock test. You will train yourself to sit for three plus hours staring at a screen, as you are pummeled by an onslaught of GRE problems.  If possible, use only the official tests, found in the Official Guide to the New GRE. There are four such tests—two that comes with the book, and two that are computer-based and come with the CD that is part of the book. Stagger these out  over the four weeks you are prepping, so that there are no fewer than five days between tests and no more than ten days. If you are studying longer, you might also want to consider Manhattan GRE tests (see below).  Finally, practice tests will allow you to better assess your strengths and weaknesses, and help inform your study sessions in between tests.  3. Focus on weaknesses Make sure not to get carried away developing those areas in which you already excel. For instance, if you are generally strong at math problem solving questions, but if you dislike Data Interpretation (that’s the section with all the graphs), then the last thing you want to do is avoid that section. Instead make it a priority to become confident and effective at all questions relating to Data Interpretation.   4. Use the best material While official material is clearly the best prep out there, it doesn’t necessarily provide the most effective strategies. You may want to take a look at Princeton Review for helpful big picture strategies. As for specific strategies for almost every aspect of the GRE—from permutations to convoluted paragraph arguments—the Manhattan GRE books (MGRE) are the best. MGRE also has six practice tests that mimic the actual test very well (though this more so with math than with verbal). For more practice on the online format, Magoosh also offers questions that are similar to--and often more difficult--than those found on the actual test. (I should probably mention that I work for Magoosh :))  Of course there is a lot of material out there that should be avoided, especially in terms of practice content. Here is a helpful breakdown: 2013 GRE Book Reviews







I did my prep in a week. So two months is a solid amount of time.First familiarize yourself with the test pattern. The Magoosh prep videos are really good for it. Know what the sections are, approximately how much time to spend on each question and stick to it. You'll get two free practice test from ETS itself (using the Powerprep software). Go through the untimed section once and also give one of the tests (timed). So you'll have a basic idea of how your test will be. The GRE is a bit longer in duration than many other exams ( about 4 hrs). You should be able to keep a cool head in these 4 hours. Apart from the ETS practice tests you can find 3 other standardized tests (free) i.e Manhattan, Kaplan and Princeton GRE Practice Test. Or you can always buy the test package from one of the reputed institutes, but do use the three aforementioned tests. If you buy the Official GRE ETS guide, you'll get two more tests (paper-based), so I strongly recommend you get it.You will have 6 sections on the test. First you will face the AWA (Analytical) Section. Out of the 5 sections left, only 4 of them will be used for calculating your score for the test. The other one is an experimental section. They say that ETS has implemented this in order to gauge the general performance of the test takers and also for analysis for their future test papers. We will not know which is the experimental section so please do not waste any sort of time trying to figure out which one is the experimental section.We do know that after the AWA section, you will have the Quantitative and Verbal sections in a random order. The scores calculated will be taken from 2 Verbal sections and 2 Quantitative Sections. So it is important that you perform well in all the sections. You will have an optional 10-minutes break after the first three sections.So now you've given a practice test and you can roughly identify the area you are weak at. Lets tackle the Verbal section first.(As this is a nightmare to most of us)The key to scoring a 160+ in this section is a really strong vocabulary. Yes there are numerous word lists available, but don't start with them first. The Magoosh GRE Flashcards app is an absolutely brilliant foundation builder. Download the app and keep going through the words. Do it everyday or whenever you get 15mins of free time. You can also find it online in case you don't have a smartphone. It covers about 1000 words that will give you enough ammo for test. But this will probably not cover all the words that will appear in your GRE. You can then proceed with the word lists. Also two things that helped me here were 'Word Power Made Easy' and the 'Magoosh Vocab Wednesday Videos' (I strongly recommend you use the videos as much as possible). WPME equips you with a sound understanding of etymology and makes you learn new words with ease. Although it requires some commitment and patience, it is recommended only if you have too much time on your hands !Possessing a large vocab is like having a machine gun with tons of ammo. But its of no use if you do not know how to fire the gun ! You need to have the ability to understand the question clearly. You need to keep your train of thought connected as you read thorough the question and recognize what the question is asking for (this for all types RC, Sentence Completion). Also in the Reading Comprehension you might come across huge ones with relatively tough questions. The only way to fire the gun properly now is by practice. Practice practice and practice. The Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problems, Princeton GRE material, Kaplan GRE material, Manhattan GRE material are all really helpful for the amount of questions they have all together. Inbox me if you need any sort of material. I can share it over Google Drive. Don't be disheartened if your answers are mostly incorrect. Read the explanations given for the answers and understand how to approach the question. I was terrible at the beginning, but trust me the more you practice, the better you will become. You have to keep the factor of time in mind too. Remember all the questions in the GRE have the same value. If you are not able to answer the question mark it and move on to the next one. Just be sure to get back to it later. If you don't have the time for it, might as well guess the answer blindly ! You have a decent amount of time so you should be able to cover a lot of material.Next the Quantitative section. This is relatively the easier section and a score of 170 is pretty much possible. I recommend to buy the 'ETS Official Guide to the GRE® revised General Test, Second Edition'. Read through the Quantitative Prep Section throughly. It covers all the topics and concepts that you need to know for the GRE. The official guide also comes with two additional practice tests apart from the Powerprep software, that are really good. ETS prepares the GRE examination that you will be appearing for, so there is no better material (for both verbal and quant) that will give you an idea of how the questions will be. Once you've read the concepts go back to the mantra of practicing. Practice practice and practice. Remember the essence of these question will be simple. But the question will not look so. It will be tricky and manipulative (pretty much like some of our "friends"). You should be able to clearly understand what the question is asking for and work on it accordingly. Practicing tons and loads of questions will help here. Again the Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problems, Princeton GRE material, Kaplan GRE material, Manhattan GRE material are all helpful for the amount of questions they possess. Do inbox me if you need any material. Keep practicing meticulously. Don't give up if you aren't able to get the correct answers. Read through the explanation and understand how to approach the question. You can easily achieve a score of 165+. Go back to the areas you find tough, read through the concepts and practice more questions. For the multiple answers be sure to look at all the options. Few of the Data Interpretation questions will be straightforward and the others will be simple but lengthy. The ETS Material will give you a good idea of the various graphs and plots that may appear on your test day. Also get a good grip over the 'Quartiles' concept which is there in the ETS material. Grasping the concepts should not take much time but you have to apply them correctly in the examination. Commit and practice till you reach a point where no matter what the question is in front of you, you should be able to attempt it. Carefully see what the question is asking for and answer accordingly. Practice is the key for a high score in the Quant section too ! (If you are an Indian student you will have less difficulty in understanding the quant concepts as most of the topics will be covered in high school math. But without practice, the questions can even trick the highly intelligent students) Next, the AWA Section. This is actually the first section that you will face in the GRE. Now, I am not really one to give you advice for this section as I did pretty bad here. Don't get me wrong. I love absolutely writing (though I am not really good with spellings). Anything from flash fiction to poetry. But I like to do it at my own pace. The GRE however gives you only 30 mins for each essay hence I wasn't at much ease. Also I did not practice for this section at all. (No wonder I didn't score well). You'll face two essays; the 'Issue Task' and the 'Argument Task'. The "Issue Task" presents an opinion on an issue of general interest followed by specific instructions on how to respond to that issue. You have to evaluate the issue, consider its complexities and develop an argument with reasons and examples to support your views. The "Argument Task" requires you to evaluate a given argument according to specific instructions. You will need to consider the logical soundness of the argument rather than agree or disagree with the position it presents.I do know that reading through numerous essay (especially the ones that scored a 6 or 5) will give you the approach strategy. The topic pool can be found on the ETS website so do give them a read. You have loads of time, so you should be able to have a planned out method to tackle this section. Also look at the 'SparkNotes GRE section" online to find good tips for approaching this section. I've read on various blogs that for the engineering programs the schools do not give much importance to the AWA score. But if you are looking to pursue a grad program in literature or journalism, you'll need a real good AWA score.The Practice Tests.You should have atleast 5 Practice tests (the free ones I mentioned before) in hand and space them out according to your convenience and how comfortable you are with the topics. If you buy the Official ETS guide you will have two additional tests (paper-based) so I would definitely suggest you buy the guide. There is no fixed timetable for giving the tests. You give it as per your comfort level. The score you get on the ETS Practice test is quite a good approximation of what you will get on the test day so give one of the ETS Practice test a few days before your GRE. Now I had a week's time so I gave one test a day. I was able to gauge my performance after each test and scope out what I needed to work on. Do look into the explanations of the answers. Remember you should try and avoid making the same mistake twice. Keep track of your mistakes by writing them down and glance at them later before you give another test.Finally, the Test Day Section. Yes as silly as it sounds, the test day matters the most. Your nerves on the test day can either boost your performance or wreck your examination. You've done all the practice you can and now its your time to perform . Do get a good amount of sleep the night before. Keep all the required IDs with you. Reach the test center earlier than your reporting time. Carry along a small snack and a bottle of water. Keep your cool throughout the examination. If you are stuck and unable to proceed, take a deep breath and relax. It helps ! You have done loads of practice you will be able to crack that silly question but this time with a calmer state of mind. It is very easy to lose patience if you feel are't doing well but keep it together for these 4 hours and you should be able to achieve an well rounded score. Don't give up if one of your sections didn't go well you have the other sections to make up for it. But if you've practiced enough you will never have to be in that position ! Also don't worry about which section is the experimental section. As far as you are concerned, you have to do well in all the sections. Do take the 10 mins break after 3 sections to come back with a refreshed mind.If you don't get a good score or atleast what you aimed, remember GRE is not the end ! I could not get the score I aimed for and initally I was disappointed. Soon I realized that its really of no use worrying about it. What you've got is what you've got. If needed you can appear for the GRE again within 21 days, though I wouldn't recommend it (unless you got a really bad score and are willing to pay the fee for writing the examination again). I prepared exactly how I have described in the above paragraphs. I score 328 and 331 in my last two mock tests. So I was pretty confident going into the examination. But the test day nerves got to me. I was fumbling with words in the AWA section. Quantitative section I did well, but I was aiming for a perfect 170 and fell short by 3 marks. During one of the Verbal sections I had the sudden urge to pee. I had about 8 questions left with 10 minutes on the clock. Though I begged the invigilators, I was not allowed to go to the restroom till the 10 mins break. And that pretty much broke my momentum. So I came back to the rest of the sections with a cool mind, a real desire for revenge (too much drama, I know !) and breezed though them with much more ease. Hopefully the nerves won't get to you ! Best of luck in cracking the GRE ! I'll be glad to help if you need more guidance. Let us know how your exam goes. Cheers !Sorry for the long post ! Here's a Potato :(Image source : Tumblr)







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is used by schools in most English speaking countries for admission into the Graduate program. It assesses the verbal, quantitative and writing skills of the student.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution.  So here are some tips to help you.1.  Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most.  Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2.  Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser.  Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3.  Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous.  When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4.  Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay. 5.  Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.Source: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE







GRE has three main components namely verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning and analytical writing. Your entire preparation process should revolve around acquiring good skills on these areas and mastering the concepts required.Some of the things which you can do to get the required concept clarity areQuantitative reasoning:The best part about GRE Math is the absence of things which most of us hate in Math - The integral calculus, trigonometry and other complicated stuff. GRE Math is mostly things which you learned in junior/ high school - Things like interger properties, word problems (rate of work, speed, probability etc) which can be solved with basic common sense. Not much beyond that.What makes the GRE so tricky is the interpretation of the questions part. Once you figure out what the question is asking, the math involved is definitely easier than what you faced in your high school. In fact, it is more fun as you don't need to write down each and every step and show your teacher on how you arrived at your answer. You just need to pick an answer. In short, the math section just tests your ability to reason with numbers.Verbal reasoning:Verbal reasoning section is even more simple with there being only 3 question types - text completion, critical reasoning and reading comprehension. The preparation process should be fully focused on knowing specific strategies for cracking these questions rather than generic preparation advocated.For example, use of flash cards for learning new words was very helpful in the earlier format of the test where antonyms and analogies were asked and there was more emphasis on rote learning of words. But, the current format focuses more on understanding not only the literal meaning of the words but also the metaphorical use of the word based on the context. For example, while the word 'opaque' literally means 'not transparent', it could also mean 'difficult to interpret or understand' if used in the right context. Similarly, there are no questions asking you to identify any grammar errors. Grammar is important only for your essay writing section. Hence, it makes sense not to rely on these old fashioned methods advocated by coaching institutes but to just keep focusing on the 3 question types.Analytical writing:Analytical writing section asks you to write 2 essays - one on "The Issue" and the other on "The Argument". The major difference here is in the first essay you are asked to take a stand on a complex issue whereas in the second essay you are asked to dissect the logic behind an already taken stand or position.How do I prepare for this? You just need to follow a simple routine and you are guaranteed to score well in this section.Choose - Structure - Write - Compare - Improve - ChooseStep 1: You choose a topic where you already have some well written sample essays. You can pick these up either in the official site or from the many blogs available online.Step 2: Come up with a structure and an outline.Step 3: Write an essay by developing the structure and the outline.Step 4: Compare it with other essays written on the topic.Step 5: Rewrite your essay to improve it.Step 6: Go to Step 1.--------------------If you do all of the above, you are going to definitely score well on your GRE.Check out Magnus Prep's GRE Program if you are looking for some great mentors to help with your GRE preparation.Cheers!







When I started preparing for GRE, I realized that though I was quite comfortable with Quantitative Section,  I was a total noob at Verbal, be it vocabulary or reading comprehension. I had precisely three months to prepare. I surfed through the net and found that the New GRE was "context intensive" unlike its older version which was "vocabulary intensive". In other words, it was your "depth of knowledge" in vocabulary and not the breadth that mattered, which meant I could cut short my target vocabulary bank from 4000 to 1500 but with a caveat that I had to learn those 1500 words inside out, their usage in context of the sentence, which included not just primary, but secondary and tertiary meanings.Note: Below is the study pattern that I followed and it worked for me, but this is not the only way, you can always modify it as per your style. This is more focused on verbal section as I was fairly comfortable in the quantitative section from the beginning. I hope it proves helpful to you as well.1. First Month: ConditioningAs Norman Lewis puts it, if the Vocabulary Bank is Calcium, then extensive reading is Vitamin D. There is no point in taking more and more calcium if you don't have sufficient Vitamin D to absorb it.First Three Weeks: Work out (don't just read, work it out with pencil) "Word Power Made Easy" by Norman Lewis. It has 45 sessions. Finish 15 sessions per week, roughly 1.5-2 hours per day.In parallel, start reading one newspaper EXTENSIVELY. Read it inside out (of course there are some sections which are just not your type, you can leave out those 2-3 pages). I started reading Economic Times because I had an inclination for business news (and with all those graphs and pie charts, it inadvertently prepared me for Data Interpretation as well) Fourth Week: Time for some extra Vitamin D. Pick up one novel (preferably a motivational one) and read it voraciously, just finish it off in one week and don't forget to mark the new words that you come across while reading. Initially, it will pose some difficulty to those who are not into reading. I myself had a bitter start but a good novel will absorb you into it as you proceed. (I read The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand, it took me 12 days and yes, it really pumped me up)Meanwhile, continue with the newspaper DAILY.So, it's been one month now. Don't expect anything from yourself yet. By this time, you have a cursory vocabulary bank of 400-500 words and through extensive reading of newspaper and a novel, you have conditioned yourself for the next phase.2. Second Month: Hitting the Bull's Eye=>The typical "GRE" way Now it's time to learn some real vocabulary, for the next three weeks, don't think of anything else but vocabulary. There are three different sources for high and medium frequency words that I'm going to mention below, but the good thing is, most of the words from these word lists overlap.First Three Weeks:Sign up at Vocabulary.com. Select the Vocabulary.com Top 1000 and click on "Learn this list" which offers objective type practice questions. It's a good habit to practice these words after signing in as they keep a track of your learning curve and offer you the practice questions accordingly.Join the New GRE group on Facebook. It's the most active GRE group on Facebook right now. It will help you in two ways:Members post random GRE questions on this group, which will give you a rough idea of how the questions are going to be while you are still in the Vocabulary building phase.Secondly, it's a good source to prepare for quantitative section. As long as you are able to solve the math problems being posted over there, you can care-freely concentrate on your verbal preparation. You'll get access to some really USEFUL links.The next source of vocabulary that I referred to was 1500 Words from http://Majortests.com , shuffle between this and http://Vocabulary.com.The last but the "first" source is again, the word list at the end of "Word Power Made Easy". Meanwhile, don't forget to read the newspaper EXTENSIVELY, especially the Editorials.Now you are at a stage where you have a "faint" vocabulary word bank of 1500+ words, an extensive reading experience of a daily newspaper, a high-speed read novel and a fair idea of the level of verbal and quantitative GRE questions through Facebook group. Enough with the "Vocabulary Only" days, now it's time for some real action !!Fourth WeekTime to pick up the GRE preparations books: Now that you have enough vocabulary and reading habit in your armory, its time to use this raw material and shape it to fit the GRE examination pattern. Start with Official GRE by ETS. It will give you a clear idea of the pattern of the exam, but that's all its useful for. Don't expect it to be sufficient for practice problems. This week, just do (work out) this book, read news paper and nothing else. Also, keep a check on your performance while attempting sample problems in this book and identify your weakness: Is it RC or multiple blanks/synonyms3. Third month: Reach the top speed, end the preparation like a sprint racerFirst Two WeeksPick up Manhattan 5 lb, practice ALL the verbal exercises, don't leave a single question unanswered. Frankly speaking, once you are in momentum, these questions are not time consuming, either you know the answer, which is great, or you don't, which you can just look up in the answer key quickly. I stumbled upon the maths section of 5 lb, I liked it, it had all those problems which, though simple, are little tricky and trap you with wrong answer. I practiced quant from this book which prepared me to be ready with these kind of tricky questions. Then you can go through Kaplan GRE practice book, its a small e-book, wouldn't take much time but having finished two books will give you immense confidence and speed in problem solving. Another "thin" book that I quickly skimmed through (I'm telling you, once you are in momentum, these books will pass through in a fly) 1014 Practive Questions for the new GRE-The Princeton Review. You can also pick up books 7 and 8 from Manhattan GRE 1-8 series for RC and Sentence completion respectively.Last Two WeeksIts time to pick up what we have been letting off till now: AWA and Exam Practice Tests. For AWA, I'd read samples from Manhattan AWA. I really like the way they break down the technique to answer the AWA section, which makes it really easy to structure your thought. For more random RC practice with a timer, just visit Codecoax.com and it will pop up an RC for you. Lastly, practice as much full length exams as you can with TIMER. Practice atleast 5. For full length tests, here are some links that you can visit:20 online tests800Score's Free Full Length Revised GRE TestMyGRETutor's 4 free Full Length TestsKaplan's Free Practice Test Options for the GREPrinceton Review: Free GRE Full length testIts easy ! Its doable !! Just do it !!!Originally answered here: How to score 330+ in GRE in 3 months ?







Quant - 170 Verbal- 164 AWA- 4.5/6I recently gave my GRE on 28th September 2017. Although I started my preparation 3 months prior to the examination I could not continue due to the fact that I am also preparing for other competitive exams. Also I was put down by Chicken pox and Typhoid for a month. Effectively I had little more than a month to prepare for the test. So I was quite surprised with the result that I got as you can see above. Here is how I prepared for my GRE test.Study Material -Magoosh GRE prep account (most important)Magoosh Vocabulary builder (words flashcard app)Manhattan prep GRE 5 lb. book of gre practice problemsManhattan GRE Prep Reading comprehension and EssayOfficial Guide for GRE by ETS (all three books)Various news sites such as The New Yorker , The Economist etc. ( as prescribed on Magoosh GRE blog).Study Plan -I started my preparation at the start of the month of July . As I told earlier I am also studying for other competitive exams so I could’nt devote much time to GRE. I studied for maximum 3 hours each day. I also did’nt study according to any plan. Some days it was only vocab building by flashcards and reading articles. Some days it was practicing problems Some days divided between both. Also I watched Magoosh GRE video lessons and I can say they were very useful.This is a tip for students from engineering background preparing for GRE. Don’t ignore the quantitative section even if it seems easy to you. Practice it as you would the verbal section.After recovering from my maladies I had approx 5 weeks to prepare for GRE. So I decided to tidy up my routine soI increased my GRE study time to 5–6 hours per dayIn a day I would first go through my magoosh flashcards and try to learn atleast 30 new words per day and also revise a few old words. Also I made a point to read and understand atleast 2 news articles per day .Then I would practice quantitative for approx 1 hour . I generally used timed custom practice test in Magoosh GRE account.For next 2 hours I would go through practicing the verbal section and writing essays.I learnt how to read the paragraphs swiftly and in detail. Again Magoosh video lessons were very important in this regard.Unfortunately I was not able to give any full practice test due to my surroundings but I would recommend everyone to give atleast one of them.My main focus was on improving my vocab by learning new words , their meaning and context of their uses as it appeared to me to be very useful for Sentence equivalence and Text completion questions. Again and I cannot stress this enough watching Magoosh video lessons was very important.I practiced and practiced as much as my schedule allowed me to.On the day of the examinationReach the centre atleast 1 hour prior to the commencement of test as there are plenty of verification to be done before the examination. Also carry a water bottle with you. GRE is very attentively conducted examination and staff of testing centres are very vigilant. If you have any problem feel free to ask for their help.GRE is a very easy exam as you can see in my case , with a directed and concentrated approach you can score very well ( 330+) within a relatively short amount of prep time.Be well , Be prepared and best of luck.







I’ve been tutoring the GRE for a number of years. The below is inspired by the many sessions I’ve had with students, many of whom have gone on to do very well on the GRE. A lot of it is also specific to the revised GRE, which made its debut in August 2011.  1. Use official material When preparing for the GRE, no questions prepare you better than the ones written by ETS, which is responsible for writing the questions you will see test day. As much as possible, stick to the questions in the Official Guide to the GRE so you can wrap your mind around how the test writers want you to reason.  You may not think that it makes that much of a difference, but many publishers out there have questions that require you to make certain leaps of logic—or employ questionable logic—that you will never have to do on the actual test. Then there is the fact that many questions simply aren’t as difficult or nuanced as the questions you’ll see test day. This is a problem many students encounter when using Kaplan—you are essentially taking a dumbed down version of the GRE, with often poorly constructed questions to boot.  2. Take practice tests There is no better way to prepare for test day than actually taking a mock test. You will train yourself to sit for three plus hours staring at a screen, as you are pummeled by an onslaught of GRE problems.  If possible, use only the official tests, found in the Official Guide to the New GRE. There are four such tests—two that comes with the book, and two that are computer-based and come with the CD that is part of the book. Stagger these out  over the four weeks you are prepping, so that there are no fewer than five days between tests and no more than ten days. If you are studying longer, you might also want to consider Manhattan GRE tests (see below).  Finally, practice tests will allow you to better assess your strengths and weaknesses, and help inform your study sessions in between tests.  3. Focus on weaknesses Make sure not to get carried away developing those areas in which you already excel. For instance, if you are generally strong at math problem solving questions, but if you dislike Data Interpretation (that’s the section with all the graphs), then the last thing you want to do is avoid that section. Instead make it a priority to become confident and effective at all questions relating to Data Interpretation.   4. Use the best material While official material is clearly the best prep out there, it doesn’t necessarily provide the most effective strategies. You may want to take a look at Princeton Review for helpful big picture strategies. As for specific strategies for almost every aspect of the GRE—from permutations to convoluted paragraph arguments—the Manhattan GRE books (MGRE) are the best. MGRE also has six practice tests that mimic the actual test very well (though this more so with math than with verbal). For more practice on the online format, Magoosh also offers questions that are similar to--and often more difficult--than those found on the actual test. (I should probably mention that I work for Magoosh :))  Of course there is a lot of material out there that should be avoided, especially in terms of practice content. Here is a helpful breakdown: 2013 GRE Book Reviews







I did my prep in a week. So two months is a solid amount of time.First familiarize yourself with the test pattern. The Magoosh prep videos are really good for it. Know what the sections are, approximately how much time to spend on each question and stick to it. You'll get two free practice test from ETS itself (using the Powerprep software). Go through the untimed section once and also give one of the tests (timed). So you'll have a basic idea of how your test will be. The GRE is a bit longer in duration than many other exams ( about 4 hrs). You should be able to keep a cool head in these 4 hours. Apart from the ETS practice tests you can find 3 other standardized tests (free) i.e Manhattan, Kaplan and Princeton GRE Practice Test. Or you can always buy the test package from one of the reputed institutes, but do use the three aforementioned tests. If you buy the Official GRE ETS guide, you'll get two more tests (paper-based), so I strongly recommend you get it.You will have 6 sections on the test. First you will face the AWA (Analytical) Section. Out of the 5 sections left, only 4 of them will be used for calculating your score for the test. The other one is an experimental section. They say that ETS has implemented this in order to gauge the general performance of the test takers and also for analysis for their future test papers. We will not know which is the experimental section so please do not waste any sort of time trying to figure out which one is the experimental section.We do know that after the AWA section, you will have the Quantitative and Verbal sections in a random order. The scores calculated will be taken from 2 Verbal sections and 2 Quantitative Sections. So it is important that you perform well in all the sections. You will have an optional 10-minutes break after the first three sections.So now you've given a practice test and you can roughly identify the area you are weak at. Lets tackle the Verbal section first.(As this is a nightmare to most of us)The key to scoring a 160+ in this section is a really strong vocabulary. Yes there are numerous word lists available, but don't start with them first. The Magoosh GRE Flashcards app is an absolutely brilliant foundation builder. Download the app and keep going through the words. Do it everyday or whenever you get 15mins of free time. You can also find it online in case you don't have a smartphone. It covers about 1000 words that will give you enough ammo for test. But this will probably not cover all the words that will appear in your GRE. You can then proceed with the word lists. Also two things that helped me here were 'Word Power Made Easy' and the 'Magoosh Vocab Wednesday Videos' (I strongly recommend you use the videos as much as possible). WPME equips you with a sound understanding of etymology and makes you learn new words with ease. Although it requires some commitment and patience, it is recommended only if you have too much time on your hands !Possessing a large vocab is like having a machine gun with tons of ammo. But its of no use if you do not know how to fire the gun ! You need to have the ability to understand the question clearly. You need to keep your train of thought connected as you read thorough the question and recognize what the question is asking for (this for all types RC, Sentence Completion). Also in the Reading Comprehension you might come across huge ones with relatively tough questions. The only way to fire the gun properly now is by practice. Practice practice and practice. The Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problems, Princeton GRE material, Kaplan GRE material, Manhattan GRE material are all really helpful for the amount of questions they have all together. Inbox me if you need any sort of material. I can share it over Google Drive. Don't be disheartened if your answers are mostly incorrect. Read the explanations given for the answers and understand how to approach the question. I was terrible at the beginning, but trust me the more you practice, the better you will become. You have to keep the factor of time in mind too. Remember all the questions in the GRE have the same value. If you are not able to answer the question mark it and move on to the next one. Just be sure to get back to it later. If you don't have the time for it, might as well guess the answer blindly ! You have a decent amount of time so you should be able to cover a lot of material.Next the Quantitative section. This is relatively the easier section and a score of 170 is pretty much possible. I recommend to buy the 'ETS Official Guide to the GRE® revised General Test, Second Edition'. Read through the Quantitative Prep Section throughly. It covers all the topics and concepts that you need to know for the GRE. The official guide also comes with two additional practice tests apart from the Powerprep software, that are really good. ETS prepares the GRE examination that you will be appearing for, so there is no better material (for both verbal and quant) that will give you an idea of how the questions will be. Once you've read the concepts go back to the mantra of practicing. Practice practice and practice. Remember the essence of these question will be simple. But the question will not look so. It will be tricky and manipulative (pretty much like some of our "friends"). You should be able to clearly understand what the question is asking for and work on it accordingly. Practicing tons and loads of questions will help here. Again the Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problems, Princeton GRE material, Kaplan GRE material, Manhattan GRE material are all helpful for the amount of questions they possess. Do inbox me if you need any material. Keep practicing meticulously. Don't give up if you aren't able to get the correct answers. Read through the explanation and understand how to approach the question. You can easily achieve a score of 165+. Go back to the areas you find tough, read through the concepts and practice more questions. For the multiple answers be sure to look at all the options. Few of the Data Interpretation questions will be straightforward and the others will be simple but lengthy. The ETS Material will give you a good idea of the various graphs and plots that may appear on your test day. Also get a good grip over the 'Quartiles' concept which is there in the ETS material. Grasping the concepts should not take much time but you have to apply them correctly in the examination. Commit and practice till you reach a point where no matter what the question is in front of you, you should be able to attempt it. Carefully see what the question is asking for and answer accordingly. Practice is the key for a high score in the Quant section too ! (If you are an Indian student you will have less difficulty in understanding the quant concepts as most of the topics will be covered in high school math. But without practice, the questions can even trick the highly intelligent students) Next, the AWA Section. This is actually the first section that you will face in the GRE. Now, I am not really one to give you advice for this section as I did pretty bad here. Don't get me wrong. I love absolutely writing (though I am not really good with spellings). Anything from flash fiction to poetry. But I like to do it at my own pace. The GRE however gives you only 30 mins for each essay hence I wasn't at much ease. Also I did not practice for this section at all. (No wonder I didn't score well). You'll face two essays; the 'Issue Task' and the 'Argument Task'. The "Issue Task" presents an opinion on an issue of general interest followed by specific instructions on how to respond to that issue. You have to evaluate the issue, consider its complexities and develop an argument with reasons and examples to support your views. The "Argument Task" requires you to evaluate a given argument according to specific instructions. You will need to consider the logical soundness of the argument rather than agree or disagree with the position it presents.I do know that reading through numerous essay (especially the ones that scored a 6 or 5) will give you the approach strategy. The topic pool can be found on the ETS website so do give them a read. You have loads of time, so you should be able to have a planned out method to tackle this section. Also look at the 'SparkNotes GRE section" online to find good tips for approaching this section. I've read on various blogs that for the engineering programs the schools do not give much importance to the AWA score. But if you are looking to pursue a grad program in literature or journalism, you'll need a real good AWA score.The Practice Tests.You should have atleast 5 Practice tests (the free ones I mentioned before) in hand and space them out according to your convenience and how comfortable you are with the topics. If you buy the Official ETS guide you will have two additional tests (paper-based) so I would definitely suggest you buy the guide. There is no fixed timetable for giving the tests. You give it as per your comfort level. The score you get on the ETS Practice test is quite a good approximation of what you will get on the test day so give one of the ETS Practice test a few days before your GRE. Now I had a week's time so I gave one test a day. I was able to gauge my performance after each test and scope out what I needed to work on. Do look into the explanations of the answers. Remember you should try and avoid making the same mistake twice. Keep track of your mistakes by writing them down and glance at them later before you give another test.Finally, the Test Day Section. Yes as silly as it sounds, the test day matters the most. Your nerves on the test day can either boost your performance or wreck your examination. You've done all the practice you can and now its your time to perform . Do get a good amount of sleep the night before. Keep all the required IDs with you. Reach the test center earlier than your reporting time. Carry along a small snack and a bottle of water. Keep your cool throughout the examination. If you are stuck and unable to proceed, take a deep breath and relax. It helps ! You have done loads of practice you will be able to crack that silly question but this time with a calmer state of mind. It is very easy to lose patience if you feel are't doing well but keep it together for these 4 hours and you should be able to achieve an well rounded score. Don't give up if one of your sections didn't go well you have the other sections to make up for it. But if you've practiced enough you will never have to be in that position ! Also don't worry about which section is the experimental section. As far as you are concerned, you have to do well in all the sections. Do take the 10 mins break after 3 sections to come back with a refreshed mind.If you don't get a good score or atleast what you aimed, remember GRE is not the end ! I could not get the score I aimed for and initally I was disappointed. Soon I realized that its really of no use worrying about it. What you've got is what you've got. If needed you can appear for the GRE again within 21 days, though I wouldn't recommend it (unless you got a really bad score and are willing to pay the fee for writing the examination again). I prepared exactly how I have described in the above paragraphs. I score 328 and 331 in my last two mock tests. So I was pretty confident going into the examination. But the test day nerves got to me. I was fumbling with words in the AWA section. Quantitative section I did well, but I was aiming for a perfect 170 and fell short by 3 marks. During one of the Verbal sections I had the sudden urge to pee. I had about 8 questions left with 10 minutes on the clock. Though I begged the invigilators, I was not allowed to go to the restroom till the 10 mins break. And that pretty much broke my momentum. So I came back to the rest of the sections with a cool mind, a real desire for revenge (too much drama, I know !) and breezed though them with much more ease. Hopefully the nerves won't get to you ! Best of luck in cracking the GRE ! I'll be glad to help if you need more guidance. Let us know how your exam goes. Cheers !Sorry for the long post ! Here's a Potato :(Image source : Tumblr)







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is used by schools in most English speaking countries for admission into the Graduate program. It assesses the verbal, quantitative and writing skills of the student.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution.  So here are some tips to help you.1.  Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most.  Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2.  Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser.  Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3.  Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous.  When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4.  Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay. 5.  Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.Source: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE







It’s like comparing apples and oranges really. GRE and GMAT are very different exams. GMAT has conventionally been used for applying to B-schools whereas GRE is the preferred choice for MS programs. While many b-schools, primarily in the US, have now started accepting GRE scores for MBA programs, one needs a different type of aptitude to score high in either of the two exams.Hence, calling any of the two ‘better’ or ‘easier’ than the other is really a misnomer. Perhaps a simpler way to understand this is through the distinction that if you’re an MBA aspirant with a ‘traditional’ profile, in that you have some experience in the conventional industries such as Banking or Consulting, then GMAT is a more suitable exam for you. On the other hand, if you’re interested in cinema studies or have experience in a similar though atypical industry, then you might fare better in GRE.Also, if you take the GRE and then apply for an MBA program then you must have a pretty good reason to justify this to the ad com as they will wonder why you took the GRE and not the GMAT if you actually want to do an MBA and this may reflect on your decision making skills if this reason does not come out clearly through your application package.Another note of caution: In case you’re under the impression that you’ll find the GRE easier if you’re better in English than in Math then you’re mistaken. The GRE English is not that easy and many of those who otherwise have a good command over the language falter in the GRE English!Net-Net: If you have a conventional profile of the Indian test taker and want to pursue an MBA from abroad, you’re much better off taking the GMAT. It’s a standardized test that has changed very little since its inception and is a pretty good test of your managerial skills which the GMAC is actually trying to assess through this computer adaptive test.Hope this helps.All the best for your test prep.







For admission applications, MBA programs nowadays are increasingly accepting the GRE in addition to the GMAT. As more and more students are frequently looking for the best option to opt from, here you have some helping tips to make a clear decision. Across the nation, graduate programs are required to submit their GRE score or a GMAT score.Although GMAT is primarily used in the business school application process and the GRE is generally used for the graduate majors, but there are many programs which independently give an option to the applicants to choose an option. If you are luckily being given an option to pick an option, make sure that you choose one that you can master more conveniently.As both the tests are given on a computer and contain a good amount of similarity between the sections, you should examine the specific contents of each test to make the proper choice.Click Here to compare section of each test between GRE and GMAT.Also, try our Chances Of B-School tool to evaluate your profile by entering your profile details.“Chances of B-School” is a unique tool to analyze your real time chances of getting an admission to a top MBA program based on your GMAT score, work experience, your career aspirations, academics, self-analysis of your essays and interview skills. This tool will help you to focus your thoughts; by giving a factual picture of the B-Schools you have a good chance of getting an admission. We at General Education believe that finding the right school is a crucial decision and it has to be done with the help of exhaustive data and statistics.







GRE and GMAT are two very distinct exams which are attempted by individuals for gaining admissions in some of the top universities in the world. While the GRE is written by candidates to get admitted into the MS (Master’s degree) program, the GMAT exam is given by individuals who would want to pursue their MBA program at some of the top B-schools across the world. Since you have not given sufficient information on what your aspirations are it will be difficult to answer your question directly. You will be able to make your choice of GRE/GMAT only after you are certain about which degree you would like to pursue. If you would like to gain more expertise in your chosen field of study and improve your technical knowledge then it is recommended that you opt for a MS degree. You also have the opportunity to get into research oriented jobs on completion of your MS degree. Therefore you will have to attempt your GRE exam for the same. However if you would like to study managerial concepts and improve your leadership skills, communication, teamwork, business acumen etc then you should go for an MBA degree. An MBA equips you in many ways and assists you to boost your salary, switch your career and even rise up to top management positions in the company.Hence it is advised that you make an informed decision after weighing all the pros and cons.Good Luck!







GMAT and GRE are both standardized tests; former for Business schools and the latter for all Graduate programs. Although some B schools accept GRE score but it is better you confirm if the school you are looking to get admission in accepts the same.Primarily, GMAT is only for Business school programs. Many top accredited B Schools like Stanford and Harvard accept GRE scores.Big Ben Language School has expert faculty to train students who are looking for focused and score oriented and specific practice and class sessions. Our targeted classroom and study sessions ensure that students get the precise results they desire. Our professional trainers provide flexible sessions to accommodate the need of the students aiding them with perfection.Big Ben - The Languages SchoolOffice No-1007,10th FloorTower A Office No-318/311A,Tower B,The Ithum Building, Block A-40,Sector-62 Noida, Uttar PradeshIndia - 201309Phone - +91-9599577336Email ID - helpline@bblanguages.comWebsite. GMAT Coaching Classes Noida Ghaziabad GMAT Preparation Institutes In Delhi







I personally believe the GMAT is much better and more beneficial to you over the long run, but let me present you the differences between the GRE and GMAT so you can make an educated decision yourself.UsesGMAT is used mainly by business or management schools as a requirement for admission into their programme while the GRE TEST is used to apply to a variety of graduate school programmes. However most business schools now accept the GRE TEST for entry into their programmeCostThe registration fee for GMAT is $250 irrespective of where you are in the world while it costs $205 to register for the GRE TEST General Test in most countries and $150 to register for the GRE TEST Subject TestTest StructureThe GRE TEST is made up of a 60 minute Analytical Writing section, with two essays which takes 30 minutes each. It also consists of two 30 minute Quantitative Reasoning sections and a 30-35 minute experimental section which is either math or verbal.Read more at GRE Test vs. GMAT Test: Which One is Best For You?







If you're naturally inclined to do better in one test over another (and your schools of choice accept both), why not stick with your strengths? The GMAT is considered tougher in the math department due to its data sufficiency questions, while the GRE Verbal section's emphasis on vocabulary can make it tougher for non-native speakers and those who don't regularly read complex literature.The GRE includes an ungraded experimental section. The experimental section isn't marked as such, which can be a source of paranoia and frustration for those who wish to spend their mental energy on questions that contribute to their score.Also, certain test centers around the world do not offer a computer-based GRE, so depending on which country you are in, you may need to take it on paper. Note that the paper test does not include an experimental or research section. If you do take a paper-based GRE, you will see five additional questions in each of the Verbal and Quantitative sections. You will be given an extra five minutes on the Verbal section, but will not receive additional time on the Quantitative section. It remains at 30 minutes.Ultimately, the GRE and GMAT have more in common than they have differences. To succeed at either, you'll need mastery of essential math—algebra, arithmetic, geometry, data analysis—as well as reading and critical reasoning skills and efficient test-taking strategies.







Here’s how I scored 330+ with a 3 week preparation plan!It is important to understand that the GRE is very different as compared to the other exams we are used to giving, talking from an Indian’s perspective. Blind hard work will not serve any purpose and sometimes will be counterproductive.ETS (the company that conducts the GRE) wants to convince you that your score is a measure of how good you are at ‘critical thinking’, but in reality it is only a measure of how good you are at giving the GRE. So, fortunately for us, the more you practise in the correct way, the better you become at giving the GRE.The Correct Way (in my experience) :Quality > Quantity. Always. Please do not spend 10+ hours a day mechanically solving problems and forgetting about them as you move forward. This will cause you to plateau at a certain skill level. The key is small incremental improvements.For me, the ideal way was a simple 3 step process :1.	Solve problems in small sets, around 20(+5 || -5) questions per set.2.	Check your answers. See the solutions, understand them thoroughly.3.	After checking all, recap the questions you got wrong, why, and what you learnt from them. This is extremely important.Let’s jump into the schedule now, shall we?Pre-prep phase (1 week) :Okay, I lied, it’s not really 3 weeks, but this pre-prep phase won’t take more than two hours of your time per day, and what’s more, you can easily do this while you eat or just before sleeping.What is to be done? Words, Words and more Words.Spend this week learning the words from the following apps :1.	Barron’s 11002.	Magoosh Flash Cards (around 1000 words)3.	Manhattan Essential Words (around 500 words)Vocabulary is essential to understanding the Reading Comprehensions as well as the sentence completions, so please complete this before moving ahead!Week 1 :Congratulations! The boring part is done. This week, let’s do :1.	4 Practice Tests2.	Practise each type of question in isolation. For example, do 20 Text Completions in one set. This will help you to identify weaknesses to work on.3.	Brush up all the shortcuts and maths formulae that you encounter.(Online Magoosh article exists)Week 2 :This week, let’s move forward with :1.	6 Practice Tests.2.	Do mixed practice sets now (All types of problems together), to simulate the actual GRE scenario.3.	Strictly time your tests and practice sets. Keep 5 minutes per section as a buffer. Identify which type of questions you are slow at. Work on them.Week 3 :Buckle up, this is your final lap :1.	8 practice tests.2.	Start reading AWA essays online, as well as general structuring tips. A lot of video material is available online. Practise a few essays if necessary.3.	Revise the Vocabulary words and mathematical formulae.At the end of this schedule, you should be ready to face the GRE. So be confident, sleep well before the paper and ohh, don’t forget to carry a jacket. It’s freezing in there.Thanks for reading! Please do upvote if this helped you.







Disclaimer!: This is not my account. My username is Abhijit K. I won't be replying to any comments on this answer. For any specific queries just leave a message @Abhijit KHi! I'm Abhijit K. I prepared for about a month ( in which I prepared for 2 weeks full/75% steampower). I got a score of 334(verbal 164/ quant 170). 4.5 in the essay writing. If you have any specific questions please feel free to contact me through quora @Abhijit K .I basically took a GRE coaching course to help me speed up my preparation.The first step ,as far as I'm concerned, is familiarisation. You need to get comfy with the test and it's various aspects, be it GRE, JEE or any other competitive test. By attempting questions or sections ( preferably with time limits). If it is a written test go for a written mock test and if it's computer delivered then go for an on computer test. Please do not take the hardest test available, you have to maintain your morale throughout. Don't look to score much. In this phase you just look to improve your perception and gain confidence. Start the actual training only after this. Take a couple of days. Write some tests/sections. Identify your strengths and weaknesses. Build your basic understanding. Why is this step important? It basically helps you build confidence and fight inertia. A familiar difficult opponent is far more easy to tackle than an unknown opponent. Please do spend a couple of days for this, no more, no less.The other thing you have to do is improve your vocabulary. Do this from day -infinity, period. Whenever you read on quora or anywhere else for that matter pick up the difficult words you see and try to learn them. I would also recommend the maggoosh apps.How you learn the words is very important. Phase 1: learning the word/meaning of the word. Try learning in a smart way rather than the hard way. Try learning by association, learn a word using images, phrases, associating it with something,etc. And do keep track of these words in an order fashion, maintain a note book for it and revise the words at least once a week.Phase 2: (you should be able to do these different phases in parallel to others, do not plan only a single activity each day) learn how to use these words. Learn how to spell and pronounce them. This helps you retain the word strongly in your memory.Phase 3: Learn synonyms, antonyms, similar words, related words and the etymology. This is key to a good sentence & text completion score.Phase 4: Try using the words to form sentences.I believe that you can spend at least 1 hour+ each day and learn at least 30 new words( if your vocab is limited then try for 40–50). By the end of the month you will have learned 900+ words ideally. The GRE vocab will be more focused on the uncommon words so pay special attention.The verbal section can be broadly divided into 3 parts: Sentence equivalence, text completion & reading comprehension.For the reading comprehension part:On an average spend about an hour each day, preferably in 2 or 3 installments. Try practice sessions of 2 to 3 RCs with 5 to 8 questions total. Try to identify the different types of questions and identify strengths and weaknesses.Each day practice at least 10–15 text completions and similar number of sentence equivalence each day. As you get more comfortable with it try increasing the number of questions in each section but please don't exceed 30–40. Your objective is not getting tunnel vision but to form your own strategy for solving the different types of questions.After each bout rest. Replenish your energy to continue on. Relax as you please but don't overdwell. Please don't forget that you have a daily quota to complete. Get used to this pattern.As for quant spend at least an hour daily. Try to maintain pace while solving a 20 Q set. Skip the difficult questions at first, do them after you solve the easy ones.Try forming solving strategy for the individual questions and the set. Maintaining your pace/tempo is the most important thing when it comes to solving a section, be it quant, verbal or essays.If you want any strategy help do not simply use someone else's strategy, impovise and make your own strategy based on it.I won't be replying to any comments. If you have any specific querries please leave a message @Abhijit K.







A2AA score of 320+ is certainly achievable in 1 month. In fact, you can achieve that score in less than a month of careful preparation. My suggestion would be this:For Quant: Solve Manhattan 5LB (5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems: Manhattan Prep: 9781937707293: Amazon.com: Books). As someone pointed out, for getting a perfect score you need to be really very accurate. This book has a range of problems and is really one of the best books for preparation for Quant. You can certainly aim for 170 during the actual GRE since you got 167 in the practice test. But keep in mind, for scaling a perfect score, you need a lot of practice.  For Verbal:You need to find out where you can improve from your practice test. If you scored well in RCs, then you might want to concentrate on Sentence Equivalence (SE) and Text Completion (TC). If you scored well in SE/TCs, then you might want to practice RCs.  Again, the key here is to identify mistakes, and the best way to do this is to spend some time analyzing the mistakes in the practice test. Once you know which areas you need to work on, pick up the Manhattan Verbal book and start solving. Last 10 days:Give one practice test a day. This is extremely important. Once the test is complete, carefully analyze your mistakes and spend the rest of the day in solving problems in the areas in which you made mistakes. Good luck!







Grishma Jena's answer to What is the easiest way to score 310 marks on the GRE within the duration of just 20/25 days and with minimal efforts?







My sincere suggestion is to have at least 2 months of time for preparation to score 320+ marks. I discussed some key points along with the strategies below that might help you for your preparation;PATTERN (VERBAL, QUANTITATIVE and AWA)VerbalGRE (Reading Comprehension, Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence)Further for GRE, kindly note that for Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence, one needs to have a very good knowledge on the vocabulary and its usage as well. It is not the knowledge of word list alone but its application too is very important.Please Note that the difficulty level for Verbal in GRE is Very Difficult.QuantitativeAlgebraArithmeticGeometryMiscellaneous (Permutation, Combinations, Counting & Probability and Coordinate Geometry)Data Interpretation (Includes Statistics as well)Please Note that GRE Quant is basic 10th standard maths and much much easier. So kindly brush up your basics.Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)In AWA, GRE students are tested on“Analyze an Issue” [30 mins] in which they have to discuss their opinions/give their ideas on the topic“Analyze an Argument” [30 mins] wherein they are expected to identify the Flaws).IMPORTANT INFORMATIONGRE scores are valid for 5 years AND is a Standardized Test. Since GRE test is standardized, the questions are predictable.Simple strategies but could prove to be very effective:Please follow 20 mins strategy. Prepare seriously for 20 mins and then give a small break. Break depends as you can take a 1 min break to an hour. It solely boils down to you. With this strategy, even if you prepare for 10 times a day (10 x 20 mins = 200 mins = 3hrs 20 mins); then you would be able to put in 3hrs and 20 mins of valuable effort. More importantly, you will not have any starting problem as some students struggle to even start.Further, keep yourself fit by doing meditation, yoga and exercises like walking, running etc to keep yourself fit. Staying fit helps you in enhancing the body & mind and in turn helps in increasing the concentration level.Have a clear goal for your preparation. Work everyday with a plan. Systematic and consistent preparation helps you a lot. More importantly, learn it with passion. If you learn with passion, then you can enjoy studying and not creating self inflicted unwanted stress.Clear Plan and GoalI come across students at times who say that they want to do this and that and so on. Have a clear plan, stick onto your goal and learn with passion. You can then achieve what you want.Self Study or Joining Online/Classroom CoachingOne always has an option to go in for self study. But that requires a high level of self motivation, sheer hard work and lots of time to understand the concepts.In turn, if you join coaching institute, it really helps you as you get to learn from the expert faculty in respective areas and it helps you to save a lot of time, as understanding concepts can take time. Further, you tend to learn tips, strategies and short cuts from the faculties.Further for preparation, student can choose online coaching. But then, the rigor of online and classroom coaching definitely differs. Coaching institutes play an important role in imparting strategies and giving a systematic structure to the student.Other than this, student should be sincere to classes and must put the best effort as their is no substitute for hard work.Factors to be Considered for Classroom CoachingIf someone has to choose coaching institute, then the factors to be considered are1) Faculty profiles (that also include qualifications) [In my opinion, that's one of the most important factor],2) Small class size i.e Faculty : Student Ratio (Even this is a very important factor)3) Materials,4) Online Test SeriesOnline test series, personal guidance from expert faculty etc will be missing if you were to prepare on your own.Take Mock TestsFurther, take lots of Mock Tests (after your preparation) and do a lot of self analysis after each and every test. Through this, you would be able to analyze your strengths and weakness. More importantly, you will not repeat the same mistakes again.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.VijayAlumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT]







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is a test of your overall performance in terms of your quantitative aptitude, English language proficiency and analytical writing skills. The quantitative section deals with your high school math fundamentals. Questions from your basic math are asked in a brain teasing way. Tackling this section with ease requires lots of practice. The most important constraint is the time. You will have to solve the paper within the allotted time. The following information provides you with a detailed insight into the quantitative section along with some useful math tips that will help improve your score. Areas of concern for GRE quant sectionThe GRE Quant Section concentrates primarily on 4 major areas namelyArithmeticAlgebraGeometryData analysisOne should not anticipate direct and easily solvable questions in the Math section of the GRE paper. You will be asked questions from the above mentioned concepts in a twisted fashion. These questions take much of your time if you are not prepared well. The questions might involve a single concept or else might be based on more than one concept. Usually, the questions asked are the ones involving more than one concept. The crux of the given problem involves simple logic and if you are one among those who strike the right chord, you will surely be successful. For such ability, you will require lot of practice and some tips to improve your aptitude and save time. GRE Quantitative tips will help you a lot.ArithmeticUnderstanding the number family such as prime, positive, negative, even and odd numbers is the key to scoring in Arithmetic’s.Familiarity with elementary mathematics such as ratios, decimals, percentage, probability, etc could be established through preparative materials such as Kaplan’s Maths Guide and workbooks.The various rules associated with logical reasoning could be written down and reviewed periodically as logical reasoning always has an upper hand in solving these problems more easily when compared to formulas.AlgebraPractice should be initiated with simple questions followed by challenging problems.Basic algebra concentrates on variable manipulations and simplifying equations.Scratch paper must be used to solve these problems rather than attempting to solve them in your head. This technique avoids confusion and increases speed.Changing signs are the areas of common mistakes to look out for in Algebra. Continuous practice and clear understanding of concepts resolves these problems.GeometryYou could begin by mastering primary planar geometry involving lines, angles and basic shapes. Geometric formulas for basic calculations should be memorized.Diagrams must always be constructed for these types of questions. Illustrations are always a shortcut to solving geometry problems efficiently in lesser time than required.DataAnalysisData Analysis includes questions from statistics involving mean, median, mode, frequency distributions, charts, tables and graphs.Tackling these questions begin with scanning through the presented data to get a fundamental idea and focusing only on the conditions required for answering the questions.It is mandatory to keep an eye open to characteristics such as axes of graphs, units of measurements and orders of magnitude to avoid common conversion errors.More the practice, better are the chances of scoring in these questions.You can also watch my videos https://www.youtube.com/channel/... Or you can visit my website for excellent online course for GRE at www.catking.in







This isn’t directly responsive to your question, but I wonder why you would want to waste precious days and weeks pursuing this goal. OK, if you enjoy mental challenges like this, perhaps it would be fun for you to try to get a 340 — and then you can go take the Mensa test and get another number to brag about.But if you think that getting a 340 on the GRE — instead of, say, a 320 — is going to get you into a good grad school, I think you may be disappointed, even if you do manage to get that 340.I can’t speak for every graduate program, of course, but over the years I have evaluated and rated hundreds of applications for PhD programs in Carnegie Mellon’s School of Computer Science — among the top-rated CS programs in the world by almost any measure.And despite all this experience, I just had to go look up what a 340 score on the GREs means. I always look at the GRE percentile scores and not the arbitrary numerical scores, and so do most of my colleagues. If you’re from a good school that we know about, we look mostly at your grades (and at what courses you did well in), and not at the GREs.Also, we admit a lot of students from China and India who have good quantitative scores, but pretty weak verbal and writing scores. I always figure that, even if the person can communicate pretty well in English, taking the GRE in English is going to be unfairly hard for them, so I look mostly at the TOEFL scores to see if they can function in English.About the only time I pay serious attention to the GRE scores is if I can’t make sense of the undergrad university’s grading system, or if the GRE is so much lower than the applicant’s grades that it makes me suspicious.That’s just one data point, but if you’re tempted to spend time trying to optimize the last few points on your GRE score, I would strongly suggest spending that time on a research project instead, or reading a few more papers in the field you want to go into.







My answer is based on what I've gleaned from own experiences and from conversations with others who have scored 338 or above.Preparing for the examFirst, you should start out as a decent test-taker. Pre-preparation, you'll want to start out scoring at least 325-330 (if not higher) on your first couple of practice exams before deciding to aim for a 340.* Additionally, it helps to have taken and done well on other exams written by ETS, such as the SAT, if only to have familiarized yourself with the general style of ETS's question writing.Second, practice. Once you start consistently scoring at least 165-167 on each section, you have all the fundamentals down. You might want to brush up on a little bit of math or some vocabulary words that you're missing here and there, but otherwise it's practice all the way. Once you get up into the 336+ range, especially, the only thing that separates a 339-340 and a lower score is a couple mistakes. Consistency and practice are the difference-makers here.For this reason, I would strongly recommend doing computerized practice questions only (and there are services that offer more practice questions in the official computerized format than you could possibly need). You want to have the comfort of "home-court advantage" when taking a test—if the home team gets an additional 3-4 points per game per college basketball game, then being intimately familiar with the computerized test format might be the difference maker between a 339 and a 340. By the end, I was really fast at clicking the bubbles, marking questions, and navigating through the test in general. It might seem trivial, but the advantage of "getting in the zone" (not to mention saving a few seconds per section) is priceless.Test-day war planMake multiple full passes through each section. Strategy-wise, I took at least two passes through each quantitative reasoning section, doing the problems from scratch each time. With enough speed gained through practice, I was able to make a comfortable pass through each section in less than half the time allotted. It's definitely probable that most test-takers could get a 170 from doing just one careful pass (and maybe one check pass), but I felt that I maximized my chances (if only by a tiny bit) by doing the problems really quickly more than once.On the first and second passes, I would mark a question (and come back on a second or third pass) if I was slightest bit unconfident about my answer. On the second pass, especially, try your best to ignore what you did on your first pass; furthermore, I would recommend starting from the end of the section (the harder questions) first. This is extremely crucial for catching the small mistakes or consistent mis-readings of questions that often create one or two mistakes on the quantitative reasoning section. I would save a third pass just as a general sanity check or for one or two questions that I marked from the first two passes. If I felt that time was running down, I'd start checking the marked questions halfway through the second pass.Similarly, I would take at least two passes through each verbal reasoning section but wouldn't necessarily re-read the passages. Here, the emphasis was more on a couple of trickier questions (which I would mark during the first pass). It was harder for me to get a 170 on the verbal reasoning section but for a different reason: it was less about random mistakes and more about honing in on a few tricky questions. (A general strategy that applies to any test-taker is to shield out the answer choices when answering the passage-based questions, as the wrong answer choices only serve to distract—provide your own general response first before looking at and choosing among the answer choices.)Take frequent breaks. Even if I felt really good about a section I had just taken, I would always opt to take at least a short breather after that section.Pro tip: There's a long break in the middle of the test, but realistically you probably have enough time to drink water or use the restroom after any individual section. The ETS gives you a lot of time to read the general instructions at the beginning of each section (if I recall correctly, several minutes), and you can even click the button to request extra time to read the instructions, which you can do once per section. Honestly, unless you're fretting to begin the next section, I don't see any disadvantage to taking advantage of that time to "reset" and clear your mind before each section, especially if the previous section was a bit more hectic than you would have liked.Note that while some of the strategies I mention above are applicable to all test-takers, some are good only if you're looking to get a near-perfect scaled score (and otherwise could potentially be rather poor strategies if extreme accuracy is not your limiting factor, as you might be missing questions due to the rapid pace of making multiple passes).*I'm not saying it's not possible to get a 340 starting out with a lower score, depending on exactly how and why you got the lower score, but if you're starting far below a 330, shooting for a 340 starts to become less realistic and a matter of diminishing marginal returns on your time: the GRE is less important to grad admissions than the MCAT and SAT are to medical school and college admissions, respectively. Realistically, anything above a 330 is quite sufficient for admission to most top grad schools in the U.S. if your other credentials are good, especially if you're applying as a domestic student (though do note that many top math/engineering/physics programs desire a near-170 quantitative reasoning score as a sanity check). Even if you're looking to get a score in the 336-340 range, note that the grind to get from, say, a 330 to a 335 is arguably faster and less treacherous than that to get from a 336 to a 340.If you're dead-set on a 340, though, I'd start with the steps highlighted in the many excellent answers to How do I prepare for the GRE to score above 330?There are certainly accounts of people out there who have put hundreds of hours over many months preparing for the GRE, which is certainly warranted in some cases depending on their goals, but putting in the extra month of study to improve just to a couple points is not really worth it. Do more research. Get more job experience. Learn more about the world. Eat some pie.







GRE consists of the following sections:Analytical Writing – 2 sections or tasks“Analyze	an issue”“Analyze	an argument”Verbal Reasoning – 2 sections25 questions/sectionQuantitative Reasoning – 2 sections25 questions/sectionIt is not much difficult to score in quant. Manhattan and Kalpan are the best sourcesYour verbal ability accounts for two thirds of your score; quantitativeability accounts for the rest. To do well in GRE, you must ace thelinguistic side of the test.How do you do that?Cultivatea habit of reading extensively. Any book (my personal recommendation are the classics), magazines – TheEconomist, Reader’s Digest.newspapers – NewYork Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Guardian(the best content lies in the editorials, and definitely not in the Page-3/entertainment section), websites and news sites (BBC has some of the finest content).Moving on to the Verbal Reasoning section. The finest tool you can equipyourself with, to crack this section is a vast vocabulary. Now, some of us are somehow blessed with a vast vocabulary, most of us,unfortunately, aren’t. That makes learning vocabulary our primary challenge in cracking GRE.How do I build my vocabulary?Extensive reading helps; but this is tedious method of getting there. There is extensive literature available on GRE specific vocabulary; various sources are give you this list. Kaplan’s and Barron’s have their long and condensed lists for you.Thebest of them all, however, is VocabSmith. (I must confess here that Irepresent VocabSmith). VocabSmith teaches you the words with meaning,usages and synonyms. VocabSmith uses the state-of-art RST algorithm,which is the most advanced learning methodology for vocabulary.Psychological research suggests that new words are learned best by repeated exposure to them, up to 4-7 times.VocabSmith’s RST algorithm governs your exposure to the words, in a frequency determined to be the most optimized, as suggested by proven psychological research. The algorithm further aligns this revision on the user’s difficulty in learning the words – you find a word difficult, no problem, VocabSmith revises it more for you. This way,VocabSmith ensures that your time spent on the tool maximizes your retention of the words, and associate with word usages.VocabSmith’s content has been prepared by veterans who’ve been in this industry for over 15 years. The list of words in each of its courses have been carefully chosen, so as to optimize your preparation for GRE. You could choose from the following three packages:GRE Complete – For the marathoners. This course contains the complete	GRE word list of 3500+ words.GRE High Frequency – For the medium-distance runners. This course contains a thoroughly-researched list of 1000+ words repeated often	in GREGRE Ultra High Frequency – For the sprinters. This course contains	400+ words that have appeared the most often in GRE.Itis available in both Android and iOS versions. Links are given below:iOS:	https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/...Android:	https://play.google.com/store/ap...







Lawrence Chiou’s answer is excellent, so I won’t repeat what he has said. Read his first, and I’ll add on more.Verbal:You are probably not going to score 340 without a large vocabulary. If you have a long time to prep, start reading lots of non-fiction and intellectual new sources like the Economist. If you have a weak vocabulary and short time to prepare, memorize an available list, but set your sights a bit lower.Process of Elimination is super important. Particularly when you need to pick two words that both fit the sentence *and* match. On the tricky questions, they like to throw in words that fit the sentence but do not have a pair. Eliminate them.Tone is very important. Look for positive and negative words and make sure your answer matches.Quantitative:You should have enough time to go through each question twice. Try to solve the problem in two different ways to make sure your answers are consistent and you didn’t miss a trap.It’s very important to back-solve. Almost all questions you can plug the answer in to solve for the initial conditions. This can be one of your two way.Use shortcuts to narrow down choices. eg. in a triangle the third side will always be less than the sum of the other two. Or the angles will sum to 180. On some questions, only one answer will meet these basic criteria and you won’t need to solve the problem completely.Test Day:Drink plenty of water.In your practice tests, you should be finishing the sections in less than 15 minutes. Use this time to get up, perhaps take a water/bathroom break and then review the questions in a fresh mindset (note: if you have trouble completing the sections in < 20 minutes, a 340 is probably unrealistic).Try and book your exam on a date/time when you will be in a good mental space (eg. not right before a holiday, morning/afternoon, Monday vs. Friday. When are you sharpest?)Dress comfortably but professionally. I found that wearing business casual put me in the right mind set. A psychological hack to put yourself in a focused, business-oriented mindset.Use the ‘mark’ function to mark questions you should triple-check.Don’t bother memorizing school codes. You can look up the school at the end of the test and if you really can’t find it, you can pay to send it afterward.If you are applying to business school, write the GMAT first. I found the Reading Comprehension, Critical Reasoning and Quantitative Problem Solving to be tougher on the GMAT. If you prepared for the GMAT, you will have to do little prep in these areas for the GRE.







Here's a 3 step simple plan outlined by Aditya Hebbar, who scored a perfect 340/340 in the revised test:Reading wordlistsTaking sample tests to realize my weak areasPractice and strategyHere's the detailed blog post wherein he explains each step in depth:3 simple steps I followed to score 340/340 in the revised General GRE testHope this helps. Wish you all the best. :)







Hi, for quantitative part we provide questions with answers. We also provide difficult questions. Please visit our YouTube channel Math







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is a test that is a requirement for most of the masters and doctoral degree programs in most of the universities of the US, UK, Germany, and Canada. The exams are developed and administered by Educational Testing Services (ETS). This is the most popular exam for pursuing MS abroad.What’s the purpose of the GRE Exam?According to the ETS, the GRE intends to measure the analytical, quantitative, verbal, and critical thinking skills of a test-taker. Broadly speaking, the GRE questions are based on concepts from the basic Maths, verbal logic, and vocabulary. This Exam is mainly taken by MS aspirants who want to study abroad.What are the prerequisites for GRE?There are no official prerequisites for taking this exam and it is intended for undergraduate students and bachelor’s degree graduated students. It is offered almost everywhere in the world in only one language- English.It is offered all around the year as a computer-based test which can be taken once in 21 days with a restriction of max 5 times a year. On multiple attempts, the best score is considered. Once taken, the score is valid for 5 years. It is also offered as a paper-based test 3 times a year where the computer-based facility isn’t available. However, most of the people go for a computer-based test.What’s the cost for the GRE Exam?The cost of taking the test is 205 US Dollars 13,500 to 14,000 INR (Although, it might vary based on the country). ETS also offers financial aid to students who prove economic hardship.GRE consists ofVerbal-1. Use etymology to guess the meaning of words you are not confident on2. Critical reasoning is just one percent of the syllabus; so do not spend alot of time dwelling on it. They are usually time-consuming and hence do not start the section with it.3. Do not attempt to do all Reading comprehension in one go. You may lose track of the time and monotonous passages will drone you out.4. Look out for antonyms in the option sets. They will help you eliminate the incorrect options.5. Compensate for the extra time in Reading Comprehension questions by Sentence Equivalence (synonyms) which can be solved in less than a minute.Quant-1. Use the substitution method and check possibilities to ascertain the correct choice. They will save you more time than if you actually try to solve.2. Make your own diagrams. Just because 2 sides of a triangle are 3 and 4, it doesn’t imply the 3rd side will be 5 units, unless it is a right-angled triangle. Such tricky questions are a part and parcel of almost every question.3. Just because the Calculator is available doesn’t mean you jump to start calculating. Many questions are logic questions and can be solved with the right approach. Just see if the answer you are looking for is an odd number, a prime number, a multiple of a number, etc and you will be able to save on calculation time.4. Usually, it is the silly mistakes that cost most of us. How often have we forgotten that 0 is an even number, or that square root of 64 can also be -8! Just try to recheck the answers along with the options to make sure you have not missed the obviousAWA-1. Familiarize yourself with a pool of 300 topics suggested by ETS over a period of time. Since your exam starts with the essay writing section, you don’t want to come across a topic which you don’t understand. The panic will then set in and have a domino effect, affecting the rest of the sections.2. In issue essays always take a stand. The idea is to judge how well you are able to defend the stand you take3. In argumentative essays always try to find fault in the logic.4. It is important to have a proper structure in place in both the essays with a proper introduction and a conclusion which reiterates and justifies your stand5. A good essay should be around 350-500 words.However, there are Universities who do not require GRE for MS.Hope this helps.







Short answer: Want to pursue your Master’s abroad or specifically in the US? The GRE exam will help you do this. GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination.Long answer: It is a standardized test that is generally required by universities in the US and certain other universities across the globe. What is a standardized test, you ask? A standardized test is any test which requires all test-takers to a) answer the same questions or questions from a common bank of questions in the same manner and b) that is scored or evaluated in the same manner. This ensures that all test-takers, objectively, have an equal shot at success and also allows for the comparison of the relative performance of an individual.Now let’s cover the GRE Exam pattern. The GRE exam can be divided broadly into two categories:The Quantitative Reasoning SectionThe Verbal Reasoning Section - Both assessed on a scale of 130-170.There is a third, Analytical Writing Section that (as the name suggests) aims to measure your ability to construct and articulate complex ideas and arguments and support them. This section is of particular importance to PhD aspirants.The test can be taken throughout the year AND the scores you receive are valid for FIVE years after you take the exam. This is good news for those who aren’t sure when they want to start studying or those whose original plans get derailed.If and when you decide to take the GRE exam, you’re going to want to score as high as you can, right? The good news is, it’s not as hard as you might think.Good luck to you!







GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination which is a standardised test generally required by most of the US Universities and some other Universities worldwide for the Masters program.It consist of 3 sections:Verbal SectionQuantative SectionAnalytical WritingIt is assessed on a scale of 130–170 for the first two section and 0–6 for Analytical writing.For further information you cab refer the following link, The GRE Test: What You Need to KnowAll the best!







What is GRE?The Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) is a standardized test that is an admissions requirement for most graduate schools in the United States. The GRE is owned and administered by Educational Testing Service (ETS). The test was established in 1936 by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.What are the Skills Tested in GRE?Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)Quantitative ReasoningVerbal ReasoningGRE Scoring?GRE is evaluated out of a score of 340. That’s, 170 for Quantitative Reasoning and 170 for Verbal Reasoning. The minimum score that one can get is 260 out of 340. AWA is evaluated out of a scale of 0 to 6 with increment of 0.5 (That means that a student for example can get 4.5 out of a scale of 6).What is the GRE Exam Pattern?The structure of the computer-delivered test is as mentioned belowAnalytical Writing(One section with two separately timed tasks)	One "Analyze an Issue" task and one "Analyze an Argument" task	30 minutes per taskVerbal Reasoning(Two sections)	20 questions per section	30 minutes per sectionQuantitative Reasoning(Two sections)	20 questions per section	35 minutes per sectionKindly note that there will be one experimental section (either Quant or Verbal) in addition to the above mentioned pattern. However, the scores of the experimental section is not considered but it is not possible for one to know as so which one is an experimental section.What is the GRE Exam Duration?The total GRE exam duration is for almost about 3hrs and 50 minutes.What is the GRE Exam Fee and Eligibility?The GRE Exam Fee for General Tests is $ 205. However, GRE Exam Fee for Subject Tests is $ 150. GRE Scores are valid for 5 Years.One can submit GRE Scores to how many universities for Free on the day of an exam?One can report GRE Scores to 4 Universities for Free on the day of an exam. For every additional university, one needs to pay $27.How many days does it take for one to receive GRE Official Score Card?It takes about 10-15 Calendar Days for one to receive GRE Official Score Card.WHO ACCEPTS GRE?COUNTRIES ACCEPTING GRE SCORES ARE:USA:- Unarguably one of the most prominent destinations for management studies, it is the American business schools which started the trend of accepting GRE test scores for their MBA programmes.CANADA:- Besides USA, Canada is another country that accepts GRE scores in its business schools. Currently around 27 business schools in Canada accept GRE scores, out of which 5 fall among the top 100 business schools in the World. Among the top 5 business schools in the country, Western University is the only one which does not accept GRE.ASIA:- While universities in Asia are known to traditionally accept scores of standardized tests like GMAT and IELTS among others, few business schools have been that forthcoming with GRE. In total, around 100 universities all over Asia accept GRE scores.EUROPE:- Home to some of the finest business schools in the World, Europe boasts of names like Insead, HEC Paris in its list of top business schools. However, not many business schools around Europe accept GRE scores. Currently, over 50 business schools accept GRE scores across France, UK, Spain and Italy accept GRE scores for admission to its management programmes. Among the top, except IE business school in Spain, all the top 5 business schools from Europe accept GRE.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.VijayAlumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT]







GRE Exam (Graduate Record Examination) is a standardized test that is required to be taken by students seeking admission to graduate schools. GRE exam has been developed to evaluate the verbal, analytical and mathematical skills of the candidates. More than 100,000 graduate school applicants from approximately 160 countries take the GRE General Test at 700 test centers.GRE EligibilityThere are no specific eligibility criteria for the GRE exam. Anyone can register for this exam, irrespective of age or qualifications.GRE PatternGRE Scores







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is a government-sanctioned test that is required to be taken by understudies looking for admission to graduate schools.The exam has been created to assess the verbal, investigative and numerical abilities of the competitors.GRE is a PC based test and has an easy to understand outline. People applying to graduate schools keeping in mind the end goal to seek after a Masters of Science (MS) or MBA are required to take the exam.GRE contains the 3 section1.verbal section2.Quantitative section3.analytical writing section1.verbal section: in this section contain PC based verbal areas survey reading appreciation, basic thinking, and vocabulary utilization.2.Quantative section: The PC based quantitative areas survey essential secondary school level scientific learning and thinking aptitudes.3.analytical writing section: The scientific writing segment comprises of two diffs essay, an "issue task" and an "argument task". The written work area is reviewed on a size of 0– 6, down the middle point increases. The essay is composed of a PC utilizing a word handling program particularly planned by ETS. The program permits just essential PC works and does not contain a spell-checker or other features.For more information you can visit our website:-http://eliteoverseaseducation.com/







If you are confident that you can do on your own,then go for it-Self study.Otherwise enrolling in class would be better,I feel.This is how you should start withTake a ETS test. You can get a free test from the website ETS Home.Once you take the test you will figure out your level and how much more you need to work on the GRE.Get the right help - If you think you are good at self-study and are self disciplined go ahead and but the ETS book , you might want to check with a few friends and look for online stuff. If you are preparing for GRE then do take up one of the Free GRE Online Courses or look for FREE GRE resourcesIf you are looking at professional help - That is focusing on taking classes, couple of things you should considera) Don't blindly go an enroll - check on their materialsb) facultyc) Take a demo classd) Most important what kind of support they provide after class etc.Take a few mock tests before you book you test date, so that you know the progress. Remember Tests are like Thermometers they just tell you the temperature. Don't think tests will help you score high !Start by taking a FREE GRE Demo ClassIf getting a high score is important to you, you must give yourself a comfortable 2.5-3 months to prepare for the GRE. If not, then don’t harbor any hopes of scoring well and be content with an average score. However, don’t overdo it; 3 months are more than enough. Your mind may splutter if you overwork it.Ok, first of all, if you have the time available, I would suggest a 3-4 months prep time. Why? Well, since many of us come from Engineering or Non-literature backgrounds, we do not get the opportunity to built that large vocabulary set that ETS tests on. I feel 4 months is a sufficient time to make up for that deficiency. If you have a year at hand, that's even better. You really can ace the dreaded verbal section with that much prep. 4 months is enough to do the quantitative practice side by side too.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution. So here are some tips to help you.1. Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most. Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2. Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser. Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3. Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous. When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4. Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay.5. Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.A relevant option would be to take the best online coaching class which provides a complete package right from basics to admissions in schools wherein you can avoid hassle of travelling as well.Free GRE online course







It isn’t mandatory to go for coaching for GRE exam.It all depends on your proficiency in Maths and English. If you have studied maths in high school (11th and 12th standard in India) also, then it won’t be very tough to score 165+ in Quant section. For verbal section, you might need a lot of practice if English is not your native language.Let me share some resources which worked for me - P.S. - I had studied maths in high school.For Quant Section - Books that i practiced from - 1. Official ETS guide for Quantitative Section2. Manhattan 5 lb (2nd edition)3. NOVA’s GRE prep course^ Start practicing questions from these books in this order only. And practice from NOVA only for the topics you are still unsure about. (This much practice was enough for me, but if you want you can surely go ahead with practicing NOVA as well). But do check out the theory and techniques discussed in this book for topic. It was quite helpful.And if you find any topic difficult (for me it was Probability and P&C), see videos on khan academy or probably on youtube. There were some techniques which were not discussed in these books which were EXTREMELY helpful were - Rate Pie and Ratio Box (Do google it and practice it). Also, do note down important formulas, tips, tricks you encounter while practicing questions and revise them before giving any mocks and the real test of course.For Verbal Section - Books that i practiced from - 1. Official ETS Guide2. Manhattan 5lb (2nd edition)3. Read general approaches and techniques from - Manhattan GRE Prep- Guide 7 - Reading comprehension and EssaysBest way to practice any type of question in this section would be -attempt 10–15 at a time ( 2 passages at a time for RC)just check whether the answer you marked is correct or notIf it is correct - great - but still read the explanation of the answerif it is incorrect - re attempt the question. If it is still incorrect - read the explanation carefully and see where you went wrong.And do check and note down the meanings of difficult words you encounter in the questions.Another tip for RC passages would be practicing to read complicated (which are written in complex sentence structures, on topics like art, literature and history) articles. By practicing I mean - Reading such articles with a good pace and understanding them in 2–3 attempts max. You can find such articles on Arts & Letters Daily . Just read one article daily. This would make you very comfortable with reading long passages without fainting.For vocabulary - You won’t be able to simply cram so many words from the available word lists or flashcards. So, I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this website - Comprehensive, Engaging Vocabulary Building - You need to try it to know how awesome it is. (Thank me later)But if you can’t purchase the subscription, my second recommendation would be learning words from - Find out how strong your vocabulary is and learn new words at Vocabulary.com. Pick up any GRE word list and check up the words on this website.Also- note down these words in a notebook with short meanings and any kind of mnemonics (the true saviors) for revisions after every 2–3 days.For Essays- Read as many sample essays as you can. Also practice writing atleast 10 essays of both issue and argument type and then try to match or check your level with the sample responses. Sample responses are available in the books that i mentioned for Verbal section.And yes most importantly - give as many mock tests as possible. It will really prep you for the actual flavor of the test, the time constraints, pressure and exhaustion over nearly 4 hours. The most important ones are by ETS PowerPrep . There are many other free tests available online too - Manhattan, Princeton, CrunchPrep etc.Good Luck!







The decision of attending coaching classes depends solely on your own potential and ability to grasp concepts. One rant about GRE coaching classes I've commonly come across from my friends is that the Math sessions are pretty monotonous and useless if you have a good math background from high school. So that's something that can be ruled out. Now coming to the most dreaded part for everyone- Vocabulary. Except for voracious readers and people with a strong literary background, vocabulary is average/above average for most Indians. So there's no need for you or anyone for that matter to be over worried about the Vocabulary. At the same time I would also like to add that Vocabulary in the GRE is not a cake walk- It does a need a LOT of effort, hard work and practice. To hone your vocabulary skills, there are amazing books, softwares and mobile apps that you can tend to. One app that I personally used and gained is the Magoosh GRE Vocabulary app- it provides a neat and comprehensive strategy for learning words. Daily practice is mandatory to improve vocabulary. And needless to say, there is a whole load of online test portals and websites that you can use for practice. So, if you really feel that you can spend enough time and put in enough effort all by yourself and be motivated to study till the day before your GRE, then the whole concept of coaching classes is a humbug and can be neglected without any question. It saves you a lot of money that can be used for your applications in future. So, take a call depending on whether you can really spend time by yourself and study hard or whether you need an external teacher in coaching class backing you up with periodic assignments and tests. Thanks for the A2A.







Not Really.Peer-to-peer learning and self-learning is the best way to start improving skills and knowledge. you should start practicing at early age. because Coaching is like a drugs once you start taking you need it more. you might loose confidance to learn something by own. may be you might loose creativity. but always try to make small learning groups who want to learn like you. you can use social media to find people. check out following examples:Can you get an MIT education for $2,000?: Scott Young at TEDxEastsidePrep  Sugata Mitra's new experiments in self-teaching Peer 2 Peer University - Learning by everyone, for everyone: Philipp Schmidt at TEDxBeaconStreet  Breakthroughs in collaborative education : Akshay saxena--------------------------------------------------Verbal Reasoning –--------------------------------------------------The GRE Verbal Reasoning section tests your ability to analyze any written material and extract information from it. Almost half of the questions require you to read passages and answer questions related to them, the rest tests your vocabulary usage by reading, completing or relating sentences. The Verbal Reasoning section has the following parts :- 1. Reading Comprehension2. Text Completion3. Sentence EquivalenceThe GRE New Pattern has 2 Verbal reasoning sections – 20 Questions & 30 minutes per section. The scoring is done on a scale of 130 to 170, with 1 point increments. --------------------------------------------------Quantitative Reasoning –--------------------------------------------------The GRE Quantitative section tests a candidate’s ability to understand, analyze and interpret quantitative information. It covers basic mathematical skills you have developed during high school like arithmetic concepts, geometry, algebra, probability and statistics. The GRE New Pattern has 2 Quantitative reasoning sections – 20 Questions & 35 minutes per section. The scoring is done on a scale of 130 to 170, with 1 point increments. --------------------------------------------------Analytical Writing –--------------------------------------------------The GRE Analytical Writing tests your critical thinking and analytical writing skills. It doesn’t check for your subject knowledge but your ability to construct an essay by supporting it with complex ideas and arguments. There are 2 types of Analytical Writing Essays in GRE New Pattern:- 1. Issue-Task essay2. Argument-Task essays Both essays are to be completed in a period of 30 minutes are each and total evaluation is done on a scale of 0-6 with half point increment in the GRE New PatternKhan Academy® Instructional Videos: Free Preparation for the GRE® Quantitative Reasoning MeasureKhan Academy Free Test Preparation--------------------------------------------------GRE Vocab Wednesdays27,076 subscribers • 5,765,262 views 838 videosGRE Vocab WednesdaysWant more help with the GRE? Click the link below to try us out for free!Detailed video explanations for EVERY question, built-in timers, customizable practice exams, full-length mock tests, and accessibility make Magoosh both easy to use and easy on the wallet while you study for the GRE.--------------------------------------------------easyvocab5,816 subscribers • 456,681 views 110 videoseasyvocabLearn and master words the FUN way! Improve your vocabulary using interactive videos!--------------------------------------------------GRE Vocabulary video Tutorials--------------------------------------------------Top 52 Words - Vocabulary - (GRE/SAT/CAT)GRE vocabulary over 3000 wordsGRE vocabulary over 3000 words--------------------------------------------------GRE AWA Video Tutorials--------------------------------------------------GRE - Analytical Writing AssessmentLayout of an Essay (AWA - Issue Essay)--------------------------------------------------GRE Verbal Videos Tutorials--------------------------------------------------Magoosh GREMagooshGRE--------------------------------------------------GRE Quantitative Video Tutorials--------------------------------------------------Revised GRE Official Guide Math Problems - Online Prep Tutor - GRE, GMAT, TEAS, HESI, SAT, ACT, TOEFL, and IELTS keshwaniprep.com 1-800-808-PREPRevised GRE Official Guide Math Problems - Online Prep Tutor - GRE, GMAT, TEAS, HESI, SAT, ACT, TOEFL, and IELTS KeshwaniPrep.com 1-800-808-PREPThe Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test (With CD) (English) 2nd EditionThe Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test (With CD) (English) 2nd  Edition - Buy The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test (With CD) (English) 2nd  Edition Online at Best Prices in India - Flipkart.com--------------------------------------------------5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems (English)5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems (English) - Buy 5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems (English) by Manhattan Prep Online at Best Prices in India - Flipkart.com--------------------------------------------------GRE Test Prep VideosGRE Test Prep Videos--------------------------------------------------MSinUS-E-Book.pdfGRE Practice Tests | GRE Words | GRE UniversitiesGRE eBook: A Complete Guide to the Revised GRE







Thanks for A2A,My opinion would be : if you are intelligent enough to analyze yourself, and to find out your own strengths and weaknesses, you do not need coaching. (As coaching classes do just that. They will point out your weaknesses and will tell you to focus more on that and will give you specific problem sets regarding your weak points etc. If you can do that yourself, you don't need coaching classes.)It depends on factors like whether you are a student currently or an employee and whether or not you can attend your GRE classes regularly due to burden of your studies/job.But, people clear GRE without any coaching. You can study yourself. Get the books and get started (ETS, Barron's, Manhattan, Magoosh etc ), if required you may refer to online video resources. Once you get your basics sorted, which you can do in a few days of self study, all you need is practice. And, also regular mock tests. You do not need coaching for that. Even if you decided to attend coaching classes, they can just guide/advise you on a regular basis, but the 'study' part, you have to do it yourself. My advise: be your own guide/adviser/coach!! So, decide wisely if you need coaching or not. You may try classes for a short time, and drop out if you don't like it.All the best :)







Dont prefer coaching classes, they are very expensive.The first thing you have to do is give the POWERPREP practice test first, then you will come to know your weak and positive areas. If your quant is good focus on verbal more, if your verbal is good focus on quant.If you want the better GRE score :1. I will strongly recommend perfectscores.com, In this site you will get exclusive guidance for GRE. 190/- bucks per month.2. After listening all the videos you just practice the 5lb Practice Problems from Manhattan Prep and Princeton 1000 practice questions for the GRE (if you google it, you can find free PDFs)3. For vocabulary purpose do the Vocabulary.com's 1000 word list.4. For reading comprehension purpose follow this linkgre.wordpandit.com - Reading5. Finally do as many as practice tests, for this case try to buy the 6 computer based adaptive tests from the Manhattan prep, if you buy any book from the Manhattan GRE prep, you will get the access for all the six practice tests for free.







Hello there,Thanks for the A2A.Before I get started, recently I came across this ebook that provides a lot of informative tips on GRE Verbal.eBook on GRE Verbal tipsSo, The Verbal section of GRE can give many students sleepless nights. A majority of students have not grown up cultivating the habit of reading and hence when suddenly faced with the onslaught of the dreaded verbal section, they are at sea. Repeatedly scoring poorly in the verbal section in Mock tests can demoralize students further taking them to the brink of frustration. If you pay close attention, I have laced the paragraph above with idioms. I am not trying to be funny, just trying to drive my point in.My point is, just like Rome wasn’t built in a day. You cannot become a grammarian within a short span of time. It will take effort and more than the usual kind of effort because when it comes to language, you will have to tune your brain to think in a certain way. Let me explain.Most Indians learn English through sound. They hear it spoken by friends, classmates, colleagues etc. Why is this a terrible way to pick up English? Because, your friends, colleagues and classmates may not be adhering to the rules of grammar. Thats why so many youngsters go around confidently saying ‘anyways’ instead of ‘anyway’.If you want to master English, you must learn it by reading. You don’t have to read literature or classics (although that would be great), you can read simple novels or articles as well. But reading is a habit that has to be cultivated. You’ll have to be disciplined about it.The other thing is that, not everyone thinks in English. This will prove detrimental when you are trying to make a point or give your opinion. You are not alone though. A majority of students struggle with the Verbal section.Research and statistics show that on an average, Indians score between 144 to 149 in the Verbal section. This is bad because, China, a country that largely speaks Mandarin outperforms us by scoring an average of 150 in the Verbal Section. English is not an alien language to us, Indians. We see it displayed everywhere, we hear it spoken everywhere. Why then, do we perform so poorly in a language that is so widely spoken in our country?There can be many reasons behind this. The biggest being that in most cases, learning English stops with school education. Most students haven’t read a book in their lives and quite openly declare that fact as well. Trust me, it is nothing to be proud of.Mark Twain once said“A person who doesn’t read has no advantage over a person who can’t read”.Let that thought sink in...On an average, Indian students score between 153 to 155 in the Quant Section. What does this tell us?Indian students fall short of getting into top colleges because of their poor performance in the Verbal Section. This is a sad state of affairs. Why fall behind or fall short when the obstacle ahead is not an impenetrable mountain but simply a roadblock? We can overcome this, all of us. With persistence and discipline.What does the Verbal Section entail?For those unaware, The Verbal Ability section contains three types of sections.Reading Comprehension [Download eBook: Examples for RC]Text CompletionSentence EquivalenceReading comprehension contains multiple choice questions and involves critical reasoning. Understanding the tone of the passage, motive of the author, idea behind the passage, the argument in the passage etc. Text completion and sentence equivalence will test your vocabulary. Recollecting words, their meanings and antonyms will come in handy here.GRE also has Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA) section which evaluates your writing ability. The objective behind this section is to assess your clarity of thought and objectivity. Do you talk in circles? Do you beat around the bush? Are you convinced about your own argument? Do you understand things with perspective or preconceived prejudice? All this comes out through this section.Students usually perform poorly in Verbal section because it is difficult to mug up 2000 words in a span of 3 months. Additionally learning the meaning of a word and using it correctly in a sentence are completely different things. You many know what the word ‘acrimonious’ means. You may even know its antonym. But if I ask you to use it while conversing, you’ll falter. Additionally, the Indian system of education, with respect to learning English is very basic. I am sure you had reading comprehension even in school. But back then it was a piece of cake. You didn’t have to read between the lines. Whereas in GRE, you will have to. GRE tries to gauge your proficiency and not just your familiarity with the language.How do you grab the bull (English) by its horns?Step 1:READ! Read everyday. If you are someone who is averse to reading, you will find it impossible to read through several Reading Comprehension passages under the pressure of a ticking clock. Your eyes will hurt or your mind will wander. So once you decide to take the GRE, cultivate the habit of reading. Pick up articles that bore you and work your way through it. Does Finance stump you? Are you on the back foot when it comes to Global affairs? Read through articles that require a bit of effort.Why?Because in this way you are training your mind to focus and grasp concepts that your mind usually blocks.Read analytically.....Wondering what it means? Follow the below:Notice the play of words.Keep a note of the metaphors used.Grasp the tone of the passage.Does the writer have strong views?Or is the writer simply venting?Is the writer placing facts before you with the hope to persuade you?Does the article end conclusively?Or does it end on a cliffhanger?Is the article convincing?Every passage can be broken down into a sequence of ideas that the author wants to convey that are all interconnected by a common theme. Breaking down a passage in such a manner while reading is called analytical reading.For more tips on reading comprehension, follow the GRE Masterclass Series by Mr.Yogish Lavanis.Masterclass 1: How to master Analytical Reading.Masterclass 2: How to get the Main Idea of RC passageMasterclass 3: How to Identify the purpose of RC passageStep 2Build your vocabulary. Don’t mug up words. Make it a fun process. Don’t you envy people who have the gift of the gab? Well you can have that gift too. It's all a matter of practice.For instance when you come across a new word, understand its character. Is it an adjective? An adverb? How do you use it in a sentence? Is there a simpler word substitute? Ask yourself these questions. Get to know the word.Have you noticed that a certain smell triggers memories? An old song triggers nostalgia? How does this happen? Our mind stores away information and retrieves it when triggered to do so. Thus the mind can be easily deceived into remembering things.Now use this to your advantage. Associate words with pictures. Or build a story around it. Or learn a set of words in a different part of your room. This trickery will help you recollect what you learn.Also use the words you learn in conversation. Of course, do not bombard your friends with a series of big words or they might stop talking to you. Then whom will you practice with? Use the new words sparingly but USE them. Reach and talk to students who have taken the GRE before and managed to score your target Verbal Score. You can find a long list of them in the GREedge Wall of Fame.One of the most informative videos, I came across for verbal specific tips was by this student named Aikiya, who in a 50 minute seminar shares a bunch of tips that can change the way you approach GRE VerbalVideo Recording of GREedge Guest Talk with Aikya (164 - Verbal, 165 - Quant)Step 3Take tests. Work smart instead of hard. This also applies to those who are fairly proficient in English to begin with. Do not take your knowledge for granted. If you are good at English, get better at it. There is always room for improvement. If you are truly interested in mastering a language then I would recommend you get to the root of things. I mean literally. Start learning the etymology behind the word.The problem with coaching classes is that it assumes everyone is at the same level. It uses the same yardstick for everyone. This is where things go awry. Some are more proficient than others in Quant and need a slight push in verbal. Others are grammarians already but cannot grasp basic concepts in Quant. GRE is a race where it is absurd to assume that everyone begins at the same point. Some are way ahead, other’s haven’t even reached the racetrack yet. However personalized coaching will focus on strengthening your weak areas. Your personal coach will help you cover that achilles heels. So when you embark upon the GRE race, remember to be well equipped, self motivated and ensure when you look up at the stands, you have the best coach cheering you on.







Needless to say, the secret here is to cultivate an overall first-rate vocabulary.This does not just mean that you need memorize the quintessential 3-4k words suggested by Barron's and the likes. With the new GRE pattern, a candidate will not be expecting synonym/antonym questions any more, but rather the missing word, sentence completion types. Which means that although it is helpful to know all the definitions clearly, it is easier and supplementary to know the typical use cases and the context in which the words might be found.As pointed out by Surabhi, using a GRE Vocab app (Quizlet, Magoosh Online GRE Prep!) is the best bet a candidate has got, but personally I'd supplement my preparation with a Google lookup (search "define <word>") of the words for synonyms/antonyms and dictionary rundown for the most common phrases/sentences.If you have time on your hands, cultivating a flair for diverse reading helps a lot, both for Verbal and Analytical Writing. You can try Economist Debates: Past Debates, Harvard Business Review Magazine, Articles, Blogs, Case Studies, Books, and the likes.Also, this is kind of fun: Visuwords™ online • Visual Dictionary, Visual Thesaurus







You can read up on my suggestions for Verbal preparation in my post How to score a 330 on the GRE – Shechops – MediumHowever, if you are really keen to elevate your Verbal score drastically, here’s what I would suggest:Pick up the Manhattan Sentence Equivalence, Text Completions and Reading Comprehension books - and actually read through them. They explain tips and strategies for approaching the verbal questions. Solve all the questions in these, read up on the right answer and notice the mistakes you are making. This gives a more thorough foundation for your Verbal preparation.Solve all the Verbal questions in the Manhattan 5lb Book. Each and every one. If you are doing TC or SE, note down all the words you do not know or are making a mistake with - find their meanings and maintain a personal word list for yourself, of words you do not know. Similarly solve all the RCs and study the mistakes you make.The Quizlet App for vocabulary words is great, as suggested by others and as is mentioned in my post.Doing all these steps should ensure that you see an improvement in your Verbal scores. It will take some time and effort but will be worth it.Hope this helps!







GRE Verbal is an ordeal to test the aptitude to evaluate sentences and paragraphs, comprehend and complete sentences and vocabulary skills. The test comprises of three sections namely completion of text, reading comprehension and sentence correspondence.Adept vocabulary·        An excellent stock of words is directly proportional to better perception of the language and refined expression of concepts and ideas in a coherent and eloquent style. The Barron`s word list comprising of around four thousand words is possibly the most potent guide to a voluble vocabulary. If you cannot handle the entire corpus then the “Ubiquitous 800” list should also suffice.·        Expand your awareness and comprehension of antonyms, synonyms and root words for exhaustive understanding.·        Memorize the words through constant revision and recollection by making use of the words learnt in sentences or through the more amusing way of flash cards.Text completion tactics·        The examiner in this section will test how far you are able to choose words that would complete the sentences to form sensible and coherent ideas. The trick is to look for the indications within the given passage to form the meaning and this will require careful and meticulous reading.·        With the repletion of choices on offer you can go horribly wrong and the only correct way is to follow the context of the content to choose the correct words so that rational and coherent meaning comes out of the given text.·        Complete the easier challenge first and then focus on the harder blanks to fill. Once you have made your choice reread the entire text to confirm that your choices are correct.Sentence equivalence made easy·        For this section you will be presented with a question with one word substituted by a blank which you must fill with two interchangeable words from multiple choices. A robust vocabulary will see you through this section and the trick of this trade that among the six options, three will be evidently incorrect but the remaining three would be a close call. The correct answer invariably would be the exact synonym.·        Try to grasp the different facets of meanings of a word and try to locate the word root for words you do not recognize.Mastering reading comprehension·        This section will demand both vocabulary strength and adroit understanding of English but also speedy reading and grasping capacities to go with them. You must prepare yourself by reading quality newspaper articles and editorials and English classics to stay abreast of challenging language and style of writing.·        It is absolutely rudimentary to understand the course and interpretation behind the given text. Brush up your skills of critical analysis emphasizing on recognizing hypothesis, premises and conclusion of an argument. Look out for the primary theme and concept, tenor, intention and rationale of the passage.·        Be careful about the inferences and deductions you make and how far the passage actually agrees with it. Your answer no matter how sensible may not be apt if it is in lieu with the intentions of the passage.You will also need to focus on your Vocabulary - Try Using flashcard - Gradestack offer more than 3500+ Vocab flashcard which will help you improve your vocab. GradeStack course is available on iOS, web & Andriod.  Get GRE Complete Tutor by Nova







Learning as many words as possible is the key.If you own a smartphone, I would recommend downloading a flashcard app called Quizlet. Words are quicker to learn this way.This site covers almost all the high frequency words - GRE Vocabulary. The additional vocabulary tests will help you remember the word meanings.Don't go on solving tests until you've memorized at least half of the important words. Once you've successfully built up the GRE vocabulary, work on improving your accuracy.Practice hard. Good luck.







my fb page will be of some help.. Visual Dictionary Project







Ideally,If you are planning for fall intake, then start preparing from/ after 5th semester (December). You will have winter vacations for roughly 1 month, make most of it. And try to appear by/ during 6th semester (April) itself.The idea is that you won’t be very busy during this time as many colleges in India have cultural/ technical/ youth festivals, Industrial visits etc going on, so environment is very much chilled out. Also the work load is less as you are still not looking for jobs there is no tension whatsoever regarding campus placements, final year projects etc.This is by far the best time to study/ prepare and appear for GRE and TOFEL.Bonus: If you end up scoring less than what you were expecting, you will still have couple of month in place to re-appear for the exam.Practically,You should start with your preparation after 6th semester (June) and make full use of summer vacation as well as initial 2 months of 7th semester.Most universities start accepting applications from October or November, so make it a point to appear for GRE/ TOFEL by October it self. This will give you ample time to do all other documentation related work.Try to get done with both the exams as soon as possible.Cheers! :)







Well,If you are already thinking about it, then you should gear up and start preparing for GRE and TOEFL.I am conducting GRE quants and verbal training for last 3 years now, I have seen students from various backgrounds preparing for exams.Engineering students prepare for the exam during their 3rd year of engineering i.e 5th semester. But I have an opinion of my own, any student from whichever branch of engineering should start preparing from the 2nd year of engineering.During your 2nd year, you have less work from university and also have fewer commitments. You can prepare slowly with your own pace and practice as much as possible.This is beneficial for your other exams as well, like CAT, GMAT, CET etc. even if you are not planning for Higher studies abroad, preparing for GRE and TOEFL drastically improves your English Vocabulary and Speaking skills which are must for Jobs as well.Overall, to sum up, the answer, Prepare for GRE in 2nd Year, appear in 3rd-year winter, even if you fail to secure great GRE score in 1st Attempt, you can re-appear for exams during 3rd-year summer break.I advise TOEFL students to appear for TOEFL just 6 to 7 months before they are planning to apply.







If you are planning to go in Fall semester, say 2017, then start preparing from July 2016. Give GRE exam in end of October 2016, TOEFL in next 15 days so let us assume mid Nov 2016. You will have all results till start of Dec 2016, till then prepare your SOP, resume and transcripts. APply to universities till end of Jan 2017. Wait for results till April 2017. Apply for Visa in May, give visa interview in June 2017, get you tickets done in June, Fly in July or August!







engineering students prefer to take GRE in their third year in the month of March or August as GRE requires to be free and students are usually free in the third year .In case of TOEFL, one can take the exam in September as people are done with their GRE and have no other Academic commitments.remember ,GRE Scores are valid till 5 years and TOEFL scores are valid till 2 yearsfor more information you can refer to the article below.When Should One Take The GRE - GRE Preparation Guide







May to July of the one year less than you want to go abroad or to start your session.likeif your last sem is ending in 2018 and want to start in same year then in August of 2017.Because it takes approximately 8–10 months to get proper things done and some want you to first complete your bachelors and apply then so if you are completing your degree in 2017 then you are eligible for 2018 batch whose admissions will start from early october to late January (few choices), so that means give GRE and other tests by May to july of same year.So two options ,Be early, (have 3–6 months to prepare)Be On time (have about 8–12 months to prepare)If this confuses you check my similar answers.Hope it helps :D .







Lets see if we can approach this problem as an optimization problem. So basically you want to maximize the score, minimize the risk of bad scores, and maximize the time of buffer kept for application.So imagine the earlest deadline for application is 15th November. You need to get your documents and all in place by 1st November. This includes time for tasks like collecting marksheets and asking your recommenders for their letters. All these takes a while. In a nutshell, you should have a concrete decision to apply to a particular college by 1st October. If you are a PhD aspirant you will also need to finish your preapps another 15 days before this time. Thats around 15th September. All in all by 15th of September you need all your scores. Thats the date we are aiming for. Note that TOEFL scores take a while to come. But this question is about GRE so we will skip that for a moment. I believe in 2nd chances in order to rectify your mistakes. With Scoreselect its easier now. So say you appear for your first GRE in the first week of July. Then if you ace it well and good. Otherwise, you need to have a cool off period of 60 days. That will entitle you to reappear again in Sep 1st week. So In my opinion, the best time to apply is July 1st --- 3rd week....







GRE PREPARATION STRATEGYTry to follow this Chronological GRE Preparation Strategy~First of all take a Diagnostic Test, available at ETS. Analyse your Scores.This Score will give you an idea of your strengths and shortcomings. You should plan and devote time for your GRE preparations accordingly.The GRE Quant tests your basic level of Maths, Specially for Engineering students. You should aim for a full score 170 in Quantitative section. This would help in increasing your overall score.The main area of Concentration is the Vocabulary and RC in the Verbal section.You should Download these two Apps for your iOS/Android device- Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flashcards & Barron's 1100 Words. These are well organised Apps for GRE Vocab Building.An average student needs 300 hours of GRE Preparation to aim for 300+ Scores (I'm not considering the Super Kids who write GRE in 15/20/30 Days & get 320+ Scores). You should calculate you time that can be spared in Weekdays/Weekends for GRE prep. This way you can estimate your tentative date for GRE Exam. Generally 3–4 months time is enough for Preparation.Spare another 20–30 hours for writing Full-length tests, in the last week of Preparations.Some Important points to Consider before GRE PreparationsYou should do initial research for Specific MS programs. Shortlist Universities in Ambitious & Safe categories. Check their required GRE scores & plan your Preparations accordingly.Start your GRE Prep at least 8–9 months before the start of Application window. So even if you don't get your desired score, then also you have enough time to rewrite it.By the time of your GRE exam you should be in a position to shortlist the Four Universities where you are going to send your Official GRE score for Free. Else you will land up shelling extra $ for sending your Official score.Remember you need another Substantial time to complete the other parts of Application like Transcripts, SOP, LOR etc.If you are looking for Financial Aids & Scholarships then you should be able to apply at the earliest (Preferably when the Application Window opens). Earlier applications gives you a lot of Funding opportunities & it's it's for you to take decisions in picking up the best admits (College Reputation & the Financial Aids).I would Not suggest you to have a Counselor before your GRE scores. However you can join a GRE Coaching (Weekend/Online) if needed.“Don't Practice until you get it Right; Practice until you can't get it Wrong !”All the Best. Keep Rocking!~ Dr SSR.







The best way to prepare for the GRE if you are a beginner is to start well in advance. The word beginner is again relative. What you may consider as something very basic may not be for someone else.Before starting your preparation, you must do a SWOT analysis. Assess your strengths and weaknesses so that it will be easier for you to focus more on the topics you aren’t very comfortable with. Generally people are comfortable with the quants section and tend to struggle with the Quants section. If you haven’t booked a date for your exam yet, it is advisable to take the exam after 6 months of dedicated preparation.You need to know the following about the GRE exam before you start your preparation.The GRE exam has 3 sections the analytical writing section, the verbal section and the quants section.The analytical writing section doesn’t contribute to your GRE score so you needn’t break your head about it.The Quants and verbal section are for 170 marks each. The quants is the scoring section and you should ideally be looking to get 170/170 in this section. Anything more than 160 is a great score when it comes to verbal.You are expected to answer 20 questions in 30 minutes in each of these sections.Something that most of the people don’t know is that the GRE is actually only for 80 marks but the marks are awarded out of 320 so that we don’t assume that a person who scores a 40 is only half as good as a person who scores 80 so the scores are given on a scale of 260–340.Getting to the hardest part of it all PREPARATION:You needn’t prepare for hours together to crack the GRE.Most people find the Quants section easy so you should just be trying to brush up on your basic concepts. I would suggest you make your concepts concrete and don’t get carried away in cramming as many formulas as possible. Once you’re confident enough try taking up a mock test and see where you stand, analyze your mistakes and then go back to those topics and make sure that there isn’t an Achilles heel. Spend as little time as possible preparing for Quants and I don’t think it will take up a lot of time. 1 hour a day for a month and you should be good to go.The dicey section is the verbal section and it will definitely be the make or mar factor in your GRE since you may not be accustomed to the language used. The best way to prepare for the verbal section is to READ. The verbal section is predominantly vocabulary based and being thorough with vocabulary might just make the difference between you getting into an average institute or premier institute abroad.Please try to stick to the following schedule:Spend two hours each day for the verbal section of GRE and one hour for the Quants section.Make sure that your preparation doesn't take a back seat during the weekends or due to some occasion like a friend's birthday.First 10 days:1. Start reading a minimum of 20 pages of content every day. You can start by reading the sports column of the newspaper.2. Subscribe to blogs related to topics you find interesting. I recommend you join medium.com.3. Subscribe to a word a day and try to use the word as much as you can.4. Install Magoosh vocabulary builder from play store on your phone and complete learning the words from all the 7 basic levels and 5 intermediate levels. Keep revising what you have learned before you go on to learn new words.5. Revise all the concepts that you can be tested on in the GRE and solve as many problems as you can. ( Don't approach the problems using formulae. Try a logical approach unless you can solve it faster using a formula.)Note: Whenever you learn a word please try to learn all the possible meanings of the word with the context. Also, learn the antonyms and usage for each word.Reading shouldn't be considered as part of the 2 hours you spend every day for the verbal section.By the end of the first month, you should have:1. Increased the number of pages you read every day to 50.2.You should be thorough with Barron's 800.Please don't try to memorize words. Try to come up with foolproof methods to remember the meanings of the words.3. Solved all possible questions from the quants section, taken up mock tests, analyzed them, revised the concepts where you went wrong and solved a few more sums from the topics you are weak at.The MOCK LOOP with the ERROR LOG:Once you have covered all the bases it is important to put your skills to test. The ETS lets you take up two mock tests before your actual exam. Make sure that you utilize it since the scores that you get in these tests are very accurate i.e., if you take up the actual GRE exam your scores will only vary by 3 marks on either side of the score you obtained in the Mock test.Taking up the mock test at the right point of time is very important:If you take it up without properly preparing the scores that you secure might demotivate you. Ensure that you cover all the concepts and practice them time and again before giving the mock test. This will help you BOOST YOUR CONFIDENCE before the exam.Just taking the mocks won’t help you improve or maximize your scores unless you analyze the test in detail and figure out where you have gone wrong.Document your errors. Cover the concepts again and try to solve the same problem as well as other problems from the same topic until you are very confident that you will get it spot on in the examination.Few suggestions:Install the following apps on your Android phone1. Illustrate - The Video Dictionary. This application is free, and is available on various platforms, including the Apple App Store, Google Play Store, and soon, the Windows Phone Store.2. Pocket GRE Math.3. PrepGame.4. Magoosh vocabulary builder. (must have)5. Magoosh GRE Flashcards. (must have)Try conversing only in English with your friends and family. It's okay to make mistakes, that's how you will learn. It will also help you with your IELTS.Try writing: Try to summarize whatever you've have read each day and get it checked by an expert.Try watching a lot of English movies and tv shows with subtitles. You'll slowly improve your speaking and writing skills.A few of the following tips may come in handy:The GRE is a timed test: If we had all the time we need, then every one of us would get the perfect score on the GRE. But the GRE is a timed test, so it is important to not only be accurate but also quick when it comes to answering the questions. So when preparing for the GRE, time yourself. You are expected to answer 20 questions in 30 mins both in the Verbal and the Quants section. Attempt a lot of mock tests it will help you a lot.Be aware of the wrong answers:The wrong answers generally tend to fall under certain categories which will help you eliminate the wrong choices when it comes to the GRE verbal reasoning section or reading comprehensions.The choices are most probably wrong if they:Assume too muchAre beyond the scope of the passageAre too extremeAre true but involve outside knowledgeAre too specific/too broadSave the worst for the last:They usually say save the best for the last but it doesn’t hold good when it comes to the competitive exams like GRE. You will end up wasting time if you attempt the unfamiliar questions. If you find a question complex, it is better to leave it for the time being and improve your score by answering the questions related to the easier and familiar questions.Utilize the scratch pad:Take short notes while reading the comprehension passage in the space allotted. Eliminate the unnecessary details and words which are just present to throw you off.The following are a few tips that might come in handy when it comes to the reading comprehension but they might also be applied to any question in the verbal section.DUMB them down:Questions on reading comprehension passages have the most gray area when compared to any other type of question in the GRE.Avoid skimming through the questions without understanding what is specifically being asked. If you find a question or choice confusing rephrase the question in your one words.Be on the look out for concessions:In many cases, the author may have a strong voice towards a certain topic or aspect in the passages. The author might have a strong opinion towards certain aspects in a passage and argue for it throughout the passage but then the author might suddenly stop doing so and make subtle or drastic concessions to the opposing side which will weaken the arguments that were previously made in the reading comprehension passage. Make sure that you aren’t thrown by such concessions.Make use of the context:If the question asked is related to a specific line in the reading comprehension passage, it won’t help if you just go back and read the sentence. The thumb rule is to read at least one sentence before and after the aforementioned line.Zero in on the idea behind the longer passages:Majority of the reading comprehension passages that you will come across while taking the GRE will be short but on the off chance that you encounter one or two longer ones, it is advisable to focus more on the first and last paragraphs of the passage and find the big picture of the passage, since time is of the essence.Find the tone of the passage:The tone of the passage can be found using the choice of words or the turn of phrases used by the author. Even if the tone appears to be neutral, assume that it is complex and look for the tone. You can arrive at the tone by observing the diction or by asking the following questions:Does the author feel positively or negatively about a certain topic?What aspect of the topic does the author criticize?What concerns does the author raise through the passage?Which adverbs and adjectives does the author use to voice his opinion?Last but not the leastWatch your diet: An important factor which most students ignore to their detriment is their health and diet. This is very important both during your preparation and while taking the test. Ensure that you stick to a nutritious diet since you will need a lot of energy during your preparation. It is a good thing to avoid eating outside especially junk food, during your preparatory phase. Also, refrain from drinking, partying and taking recreational drugs a week or two before the Test day.P.S. If you are looking for study material I would recommend the following:GRE verbal prep - A definitive guideGRE Prep: Crack the Quantitative Reasoning SectionGre Prep: Crack the Analytical Writing Assessment Section EffortlesslyGood Luck!







I recently took GRE. Got 330/340 after preparing for 20 days.I got 170/170 in Quant and 160/170 in Verbal. I learned words using Barron's 1100 words android application and Word power made easy(Norman Lewis).Barron's 1100 app link: Barron's 1100 - Android Apps on Google PlayWord power made easy: Buy the book, it's very cheap.I learned words from only these two sources and almost all the words on actual exam were covered in these two sources. Make sure that you do not simply cram the meanings. Try to understand the context.I think only learning these two sources in their entirety are sufficient for building a decent vocab for in GRE. I got a 113/120 in TOEFL too by only these too sources. If you have time, go for Magoosh flash cards App and learn only first two levels, leave the advanced one.One important part for preparation is to be able to apply what you have learned, for that you need a lot of practice. Buy Manhattan 5 pounds book. It has a lot for questions for practice. After learning the vocabulary, practice the questions from Manhattan book. Put more emphasis on RCs and Paragraph completion.For a good GRE score, one advice would be to maximize score in Quant. I used Barron's GRE book for revising basic mathematics concepts and used Manhattan 5 pounds for practice. Do not forget to prepare for the essay part; otherwise you will get an awful 3 like me!Good Luck for your exam.







I've just taken the test a couple months back, and let me assure you that the answer you might be looking for (not much time required) might be a right answer. I said might because it totally depends upon your existing knowledge and aptitude problem solving capabilities along with your reading habits and existing vocabulary. Verbal Section: Now, as I found out by taking the GRE twice, vocabulary is not the biggest deal that there is. Yes, I know this is contrary to what many people would tell you, but believe me, it's true. You don't need to take in all 4500 words to do well in the verbal section. What you really need is a good reading habit. If you're accustomed to reading The Hindu, The New Yorker, The New York Times, The Atlantic, Pacific Standards, et cetera, you would find the RC part of the GRE not as tough as it is perceived to be. You've got to have a healthy reading habit to do well in the verbal section. Let's auppose that you're not an avid reader, and that you hardly ever read newspapers. In this scenario, I'd advise you to start doing so first thing in the morning- well, after freshening up. And I'm not just talking about a newspaper or two, I'm talking about reading at least one newspaper (offline. Again, The Hindu is as good as it gets, especially here in India.)  and magazines such as The New Yorker, MIT Technology Review, The New York Times, The Atlantic, Pacific Standards, The Economist, The Verge, and a few really good websites such as Nautilus, Arts & Letters Daily. Do it whenever you can. I'd advise you to get up early in the morning and go for a run before rummaging through above sites and reading for at least 3 hours (try to go for editorials and read even the most boring article. It'll help a ton!) a couple months of following this routine (scrupulously) and you should be ready to take on the GRE verbal. Now, from where are you going to learn the new words for the GRE? The answer is, from the magazines you'll read (try maintaining a notebook with the words along with their meaning, usage in a sentence and synonyms.) and from 1100 words by Barron's, Manhattan 500 Basic and 500 Advanced flash cards, and  Magoosh GRE verbal flash cards app. I'd also suggest buying or downloading Manhattan 8 series books. They're amazing and cover literally everything.I know it's a lot of work, but with gusto, it's not that big a baggage, but fun.Quantitative Section:Manhattan 5lbs book. Hands down! Your ultimate guide to get into the late 150 and early 160. To push further, you're gonna have to give a lot of mock tests and solve ETS' guide for GRE. ETS is a must buy. If you're comfortable with the quant part, I'd say a couple weeks should suffice. But still, take 3.5 to be on the safe side and to avoid rushing through the exercises. Manhattan 8 series books will also help you here with concepts.AWA: Now, with the help of 8 series guide's and ETS' guidelines and the topics given in their site, you should be able to nail this one if you are into writing or reading. Practice it for a week or so and you're ready for it. It's quite fun, to be honest. Most importantly, don't lose hope, gusto, and be focused. And, maintain a time-table. Good luck.







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is a test of your overall performance in terms of your quantitative aptitude, English language proficiency and analytical writing skills. The quantitative section deals with your high school math fundamentals. Questions from your basic math are asked in a brain teasing way. Tackling this section with ease requires lots of practice. The most important constraint is the time. You will have to solve the paper within the allotted time. The following information provides you with a detailed insight into the quantitative section along with some useful math tips that will help improve your score. Areas of concern for GRE quant sectionThe GRE Quant Section concentrates primarily on 4 major areas namelyArithmeticAlgebraGeometryData analysisOne should not anticipate direct and easily solvable questions in the Math section of the GRE paper. You will be asked questions from the above mentioned concepts in a twisted fashion. These questions take much of your time if you are not prepared well. The questions might involve a single concept or else might be based on more than one concept. Usually, the questions asked are the ones involving more than one concept. The crux of the given problem involves simple logic and if you are one among those who strike the right chord, you will surely be successful. For such ability, you will require lot of practice and some tips to improve your aptitude and save time. GRE Quantitative tips will help you a lot.ArithmeticUnderstanding the number family such as prime, positive, negative, even and odd numbers is the key to scoring in Arithmetic’s.Familiarity with elementary mathematics such as ratios, decimals, percentage, probability, etc could be established through preparative materials such as Kaplan’s Maths Guide and workbooks.The various rules associated with logical reasoning could be written down and reviewed periodically as logical reasoning always has an upper hand in solving these problems more easily when compared to formulas.AlgebraPractice should be initiated with simple questions followed by challenging problems.Basic algebra concentrates on variable manipulations and simplifying equations.Scratch paper must be used to solve these problems rather than attempting to solve them in your head. This technique avoids confusion and increases speed.Changing signs are the areas of common mistakes to look out for in Algebra. Continuous practice and clear understanding of concepts resolves these problems.GeometryYou could begin by mastering primary planar geometry involving lines, angles and basic shapes. Geometric formulas for basic calculations should be memorized.Diagrams must always be constructed for these types of questions. Illustrations are always a shortcut to solving geometry problems efficiently in lesser time than required.DataAnalysisData Analysis includes questions from statistics involving mean, median, mode, frequency distributions, charts, tables and graphs.Tackling these questions begin with scanning through the presented data to get a fundamental idea and focusing only on the conditions required for answering the questions.It is mandatory to keep an eye open to characteristics such as axes of graphs, units of measurements and orders of magnitude to avoid common conversion errors.More the practice, better are the chances of scoring in these questions.You can also watch my videos https://www.youtube.com/channel/... Or you can visit my website for excellent online course for GRE at www.catking.in







I recently took the GRE for the first time and got a 161 Quantitative Reasoning, 161 Verbal Reasoning. For reference, I'm an Indian with an undergraduate background in Computer science, working full-time about four years out from college. I started studying about seven weeks before my test date and studied in two phases. In the first phase (weeks 1-4), I mostly followed my coachings 1-month study plan and completed all of the associated lesson videos and practice problems. In the second phase (weeks 5-7), I did ETS practice problems along with the practice test provided by my coaching.I wrote up this study plan for a friend, but I thought I'd share it here in case folks are interested.My way of preparation was unconventional, however, I would recommend it highly.You should not take a mock test without familiarizing yourself with all the concepts, as it might demotivate you. Instead, Download Official ETS math review and Official ETS Verbal reasoning review and go through them.I did this early on to refresh my memory on the different quant topics, many of which I hadn't used in 2-3 years. It's a good place to start, but the exercises are smaller, discrete components of typical GRE quant problems. I also looked through the Math Conventions to familiarize myself.This will familiarize you with the mathematical and verbal concepts that are important in solving problems.Resources: One of the most annoying things I found about studying for the GRE is actually acquiring GRE preparation resources.I have curated a list of resources.Formulae Sheet: https://imgur.com/a/BNUUDI8Book PDF(Quant + Verbal): https://drive.google.com/drive/f...Verbal Video playlist: [GRE] Prep smart, keep it simple! - YouTubeI'm a big procrastinator, so instead of studying regularly over the span of a long time, I opted to cram at the last minute. Here are some effective GRE cramming tips for you, if I could do it all over again, I would study regularly and start long before the time of the exam.Verbal: Respect the Word list!For my first mock, I didn't learn any vocab at all, thinking that learning a few new words won't matter in the grand scheme of things. After all, it was my reading ability that will be put to the test yeah? Considering how many words I don't know in the English language, I figured why to bother. MISTAKE! The GRE has a list of words that the test-makers like to use at an absurdly frequent rate. Many sites and books have lists of high-frequency words that have come up time and again on the GRE general. I initially dismissed it, but after learning the words on the list that I didn't already know, I began seeing just how often they came up in all of the practice tests I took. Yes, the real exam was inundated with them as well. Study the high-frequency words! IMO, words not mentioned in any of these lists are not a priority, but these definitely are. This list was really helpful to me while cramming, as they were something concrete and meaningful I could do in the span of a few weeks.Reading Comprehension: The reading comprehension on the GRE is in my opinion more challenging than what you will find in most of the practice tests. How to prepare for this will somewhat depend on your personal experience with dense/verbose writing. I am an engineer but I took both Advance English courses in the first year and read some tricky material of writers like Kafka, Michael Crichton, Douglas Adams etc. The best advice I can give is to really carefully consider what the question is asking, especially when you see "inferred" or "the author's opinion would most likely be". In these cases, remember, you are not a wizard; you are looking for something that is almost stated explicitly.If you are having difficulty with reading comprehension, I would definitely recommend practice RC sections in the gmatclub. Lot's of practice sets there with great explanations. You should time yourself as well and try to work quickly. The quicker and more confidently you can make these analytical decisions, the better you will feel taking a test.Quantitative: As I stated, I have an engineering background so I am supposed to walk in with a pretty solid base. However, because the GRE covers a wide array of topics I definitely have weaknesses in quant. You will want to be damn comfortable with inequalities, polygons (primarily triangle rules) and circles, and basic statistics (mean, median, mode, understand how a standard deviation is computed) as these are guaranteed to be all over. After taking a lot of practice tests, the key with quant, in my opinion, is not getting hung on a question or set of questions.Data Analysis - This is undoubtedly the easiest place to lose a ton of time. Based on the overcrowded graphs they give you it may take you 90+ seconds just to figure out where the hell stuff is. greprepclub has a ton of these problems and is a great way to work on your speed.Setting Up Algebraic Equations - These questions can be exceedingly annoying. They are often long-winded and written to be confusing. The good news is they almost always take the form of some age relationship, variable rates or work question. This means, with practice, you can get very efficient at them, having basically seen the same question 20+ times before test day.Inequalities - These can get really twisted in your head if you think of them theoretically. The good news is, they can almost always be solved by plugging in values. Get comfortable quickly identifying the values to plug in, such that you create friendly things to analyze (3 versus 14/85) and you won't lose time here.Misc tipsTime is the most valuable resource. Knowing shortcuts and faster approaches save time that can be used to check work or revisit tricky problems--this is why it's worth watching the explanation videos even when I got the problem right. It's also important to take advantage of the ability in the revised GRE to skip problems and come back later. This has the added benefit of seeing a problem in a new light, which may reveal information or approaches missed the first time through.Simulate test day faithfully. I read the ETS test day information from the start to gain familiarity with the test center rules so I could simulate that environment as closely as possible. Since I was taking the computer-based GRE, I took computer-based practice tests or stood up the book like a screen so I could practice copying equations and drawings to paper (over the course of 7 weeks, there were at least 20 or 30 quant practice problems that I got wrong simply because I incorrectly transcribed an equation or expression). I also didn't let myself drink water or go to the bathroom during practice tests (except during the 10-minute break). Making it as close to real as-as possible prevented surprises on test day.Don't over-study. I found that studying more than about 2 or 3 hours a day had diminishing returns since my brain could only absorb so much information per day, even with plenty of sleep. I usually did around 60 to 90 minutes of topic review (i.e. lesson videos, flashcards) and 60 to 90 minutes of practice problems, which was about as much as I could handle after an eight hour work day.







The internet is flooded with awesome forums and groups for GRE aspirants. In the era of online education, the advantages of one-on-one interaction, personalized online training, doubt clearance, and many other aspects of learning are what you should capitalize on to give an edge to your preparation.However, I would like to emphasize here that even though forums are excellent sources of information, one will not be able to achieve high scores using just forums and discussion groups. It is not a prudent idea! One requires expert guidance to score high and land in his/her dream university.  With that said, here is a list of forums which one might find somewhat useful:Urch-GRE: Urch is a great place for students to interact with fellow GRE aspirants. Still it has some cons. Find the specific pros and cons of Urch-GRE forum in this Table.The GradCafe: The topics in this forum are broad, ranging from AWA analysis to Visa preparations. This forum differs from Urch and also has a set of pros and cons:Dr. Raju's Forum: This is another good forum for GRE verbal and quant preparations. There are threads which address issues related to Visa and other admission requirements.GRE PrepClub-Forum: This website is dedicated to GRE and has detailed GRE forums. The forums offer in-depth and detailed analysis of each topicEdulix forum: is known for its profile evaluation sub-forum. It is also a well thought GRE prep forum, it still lacks the volume of GRE preparation threads.For details about other forums, you can check this blog: Best online forums for GRE preparation.There are some Facebook groups which can be helpful for a self-preparing student, who seeks to get quick replies to his doubts. Check these out:MS in US fall' 2016: Though it seems a little out-dated, the group is active. People regularly post their doubts and get replies from fellow aspirants and other experienced people. It is a big community of like-minded people aiming for success in GRE.MS Dreams: This is another group with 6 k+ members looking to land in their dream universities for Master’s. The added advantage in this group is that as aspirants interact with each other, GREedge experts answer each doubt with careful analysis of the doubt. Expert advice is a big advantage any day. The group also has regular quizzes and other activities to keep the aspirants well-informed and engaged.To summarize there a few good things & the some not so good things of general user groups and forums. To state a few:Answers usually don’t come from experts that is why the answers are not carefully curated or vetted. All kinds of marketers & product pushers and highly excitable or frustrated writers take to such forums. It is highly likely to see a swaying, persuasive statement that is far from the truth or at least not universally applicable. In the field of GRE preparation, high score and university choice - personalization is everything. The decisions, teaching and training has to be quite nuanced and personalized to each student. This tends to be missing in a general, uncurated forums.Forums are a great place for you to interact with other GRE aspirants like yourself. You can clarify doubts and gain insights into personal experiences such as things to watch out for on the test day etc.That said, it is necessary to acknowledge that in these forums, it is personal experiences, not expert guidance, that takes the forefront. What works for one student may not work for another and blindly following a plan without ensuring it adheres to your strengths and problem areas is a concern.Keep your eye on the prize when you are preparing i.e, getting the best admit for your profile and choose the right method of preparation tailor-made for you.







Answer is biased for GRE since I have no interest in GMAT:You'll only need Welcome - CrunchPrep GRE.I came across this site when I was searching for taking online tests i.e., 33 Free GRE Practice Tests That You Should Definitely Take! - CrunchPrep GRE Then I started reading other posts by crunchprep.11 Reasons Why You Should Choose Online GRE Prep - CrunchPrep GRE 27 Proven Test Day Tips To Ace The GRE - CrunchPrep GRE The Ultimate Guide to Scoring 330+ on the GRE - CrunchPrep GRE Manhattan GRE Book Review - CrunchPrep GRE Top 101 High Frequency GRE Words - CrunchPrep GRE How Long Should Your GRE Essay Be? A Data Driven Answer - CrunchPrep GRE 21 Killer GRE Essay Quotes You Should Be Using Right Now - CrunchPrep GRE What is the GRE Experimental Section All About? - CrunchPrep GRE And the best post by them, according to me is the followingThe Ultimate List of US Universities for GRE Scores 300 to 310 - CrunchPrep GRE The Ultimate List of US Universities for GRE Scores 310 to 320 - CrunchPrep GRE The Ultimate List of US Universities for GRE Scores 320 to 340 - CrunchPrep GRE And they are very responsive in the comments section and the discussion page. So take your time exploring it and be successful in your endeavours!







There are lots of forums which will help you prepare for GRE. There are apps like Magoosh, ChalkStreet, higheredu.com, Facebook groups and pages which will help you prepare for GRE/GMAT.GRE involves 3 sections which are namely analytical reasoning, quants and verbal. Indians or Asians in general don’t face much trouble when it comes to the quants section but a fair chunk of them find the verbal section quite challenging since they aren’t accustomed to the vocabulary.GRE is predominantly a vocabulary based test. Being thorough with the high frequency (300) words could make a huge difference in your GRE score. Even a few marks can cost you a seat in your dream university. The knowledge of your vocabulary is immensely tested in various questions like sentence correction, text completion and reading comprehension.Personally I would recommend ChalkStreet since you want to be a part of forums which have everything to do with GRE/GMAT. They have dedicated Facebook groups to help GRE aspirants. They also offer free counselling for the aspirants and if you have any queries or doubts you can always ping them and their team of experts will clear your doubts immediately. They also have a discussions forum on their website and app where you can interact with fellow aspirants as well as their experts.ChalkStreet is a great app for android users and it is also available as a website which will help you ace the GRE. It is a website which has courses on diverse subjects at levels to suit the learner. Apart from courses the app/website also has a lot of articles related to higher education. It will not just help you improve your vocabulary immensely. It will also help you with the quants section. It has vast collection of articles and practise questions. There are videos which deal with only the high frequency words and the various shortcuts like etymology which you can use to remember the words and the in-context meaning.







Hey, congratulations for opting for higher education abroad. Well, there are a number offorums online including GREPrepClub, GREedge, Mangoosh, CrackVerbal, GRE-Urch,Gradcafe forums etc which could help you prepare for your GRE but from a personalpoint of view I could say that you could study the three sections of GRE from differentwell known sources.Quantitative section:Manhattan, Princeton and ETS publishers have published really wonderful books forquantitative reasoning.Verbal section:It requires a wonderful vocabulary and for that you should make the dictionary your bestfriend.  Some good dictionaries for the preparation are:1. Dictionary.com - The world’s favorite online dictionary!- This widely used online dictionary comes with thesaurus,sentence explanations etc.2. Oxford Advanced Learner&#39;s Dictionary: It comes with a thesaurus along withother features like grammatical usages etc.3. Concise English Dictionary and Thesaurus: This dictionary is available as amobile application with various useful features like explained meaning, sentenceformation etc.Memorize app and Magoosh Flashcard app can serve the purpose too.Analytical writing section:ETS also provides an online service known as ScoreItNow! It is an online writingpractice service that helps one in the preparation for the Analytical Writing section of theGRE. ScoreItNow! has a few unique features that can prove to be beneficial to the GREaspirants. You can submit your essays on this web-based tool and get an immediatescore by ETS’s e-rater scoring system. You receive feedbacks on the essays submittedby you and get suggestions on how to improve your analytical writing skills. You canalso review graded essays on the topics you select. This tool enables you to judge thelevel of your preparation.Finally, I would recommend you to enroll yourself for weekly practice tests once youthink you are more or less prepared for GRE. Those tests enable you to understandwhere you stand such that you can gear up and work harder to achieve the highest.Refer to the following blogs by GyanDhan to know more about how to prepare for theverbal section and the analytical writing section:GyanDhan ace-GRE- Verbal-sectionGyanDhan







Database of admitted GRE scores, community of students .Bsfsos aka By the students, For the students, Of the students was created to build and maintain the database of institutions admission cut off scores and reviews to help upcoming students in their admissions journey.Bsfsos GRE College predictor uses these data contributed by students to predict colleges to upcoming students based on their scores and experience.Data which is available publicly on Bsfsos is free and open to everyone.The data on bsfsos is purely contributed by public, Bsfsos in no way guarantees accuracy of publicly contributed data such as institution cut off and personal admitted scores. These data are used at your own risk, while we try our best to maintain legit data and delete reported and invalid data.Students who contribute data such as their admitted scores or institution cut off scores are made publicly available on Bsfsos. Bsfsos respects privacy of users and do not display any sensitive data of users publicly. Community peers hold right to delete and alter any data contributed by public without notification.Please share your admitted stats on Bsfsos takes less than 10 seconds and helps 1000s of upcming students.Let me know if you guys need any help







Dear GRE folks,I think most of you are familiar with http://greprepclub.com/?fl=menuplatform, which is still in development not comparing with GMAT club. This platform is very convenient for your preperations, because it gives you possibilities:1. Become familiar with recent and diverse GRE questions2. Comment, and interact with other people regarding the questions3. Add questions and seek for an explaination4. Make a network and engage in preperation process through a flexible platform5. It is free to sign up, and includes a lot of GRE materials 6. There are multiple other benefits in this web-site, which you would explore after signing upThe reason of why I am writing this letter is that I noticed how in similar GMAT platform, GMAT people are in intensive engagement--commenting, debating, discussing and so forth. So, lets develop our platform to increase our grades and have a fun.







When is the right time ?One Year Plan for Fall Semester:You will have to start Information Research and Pre application (before giving GRE) to the universities that allow this process. After March you can prepare yourself for GRE and give the exam. Do not worry if you don’t get your desired marks. You can take the test once every 21 days, up to five times within any continuous rolling 12-month period (365 days). This applies even if you canceled your scores on a test taken previously. You may take the paper-delivered test as often as it is offered. You have time till September. After September you will have to start getting your application documentation (SOP, Transcripts, Letter of recommendation, Resumes, Financial Documents) ready as it may take a while in few cases to gather it all. You can start applying now to your desired colleges and application deadlines will be in November. In next few months the Admission decisions will be announced, after which you can start your VISA application June and Course will be starting in September.







The time to start preparing varies for different people. Some are more competent and need less than a month to ace while others struggle even after a year of preparation.My advice, if you are in the second category(like me) : Start preparing 2–3 months before giving the exam. You should typically give GRE one year before applying. So, that makes 1 year and 3 months before the term you are applying for. Having said that, you can never start too early.. So start right now and give yourself some more preparation time.Start by giving a diagnostic test and evaluating yourself. Then go and buy some useful books like GRE Official guide, Manhattan 5lb Book, etc.Work on word lists : Memrise - Learn something new every day is a website that provides words with special lists for GRE and you can remember them on a longer run. Learn as many words as you can while simultaneously reading from The Atlantic Breaking News, World News & Multimedia, etc., It is important you read because the reading comprehension questions have a similar structure to what is there in these websites.Practice as many math problems as possible. Work on quant, do not take it lightly and if you get it wrong, try to find out what is the right solution and how it is arrived at.Give as many Mock tests as you can. There are plenty of resources for mock tests - Kaplan, Manhattan Test Prep, Magoosh, Princeton Review and many more. Not to forget the official mock tests - ETS PowerPrep II.Whether you choose to go for coaching or not is upto you but if you work hard you’ll ace the test whether or not you go.All the best!







Thanks for the A2A!It really depends on what score you’re targeting and where you currently stand in terms of prepared-ness. I would suggest taking a diagnostic test first, for this reason. Gathering where your strengths and weaknesses lie will enable you to plan more efficiently. Here is a link to a free online diagnostic test- http://bit.ly/2z92K3C.Once you’re done with that and have a better idea of what needs working on, you can start to plan your prep. Some people require three months, others find they can manage in 45 days. There is no one-size-fits-all time period for which you should prepare.Assuming you have a math background, the Quant section should be easier for you to tackle. That does not mean you do not have to practice or that you can slack off- it simply means you should be able to devote more time to your Verbal prep.Set aside a certain amount of time a day to practice and reintroduce yourself to the Quant concepts you already know. Of course, if there are topics you struggle with, you’ll want to do a deep dive and re-learn these concepts.Take practice tests for every new topic you cover- this is key. For free GRE practice questions with explanations, there’s a great free, GRE app available. The Ultimate GRE prep app. Use this to get started.For verbal, the first thing you need to do is read. Learn the meanings of words. If reading isn’t something you’re comfortable with, start with learning words.There are apps you can use for this, the one I usually recommend is the Ultimate Vocabulary Prep app. Its fun and efficient. Set aside goals for the number of words you should learn in a day, it helps to stay on track.Once you’ve understood the meaning of the word, make sure to familiarize yourself with the word. Use the word in sentences, get a feel for how the word fits into different contexts. Remember, the GRE is not a test of how many words you know. Its a test of your analytical ability so you need to know how the words you’re learning fit into different contexts.Read articles from the Atlantic, The New York Times, the Hindu- the more varied the subject of the articles, the better.The most important thing to keep in mind when preparing for the GRE is that you track your progress. Note where you’re making mistakes and work on those areas. Time your performance, you’ll find that time management is an essential skill to have when it comes to the GRE.The three main things I would say needed to prep for the GRE are:quality study materialconstant tracking of your progresstest-taking skills i.e. time-management skillsThe first is easier to find than the last two. GRE prep app- http://bit.ly/2Bcc48KVocab app- http://bit.ly/2COmzzsI hope this helps!Good luck!







Atleast 6 month before your GRE Exam you should start your preparation ..Basic Tips to Prepare for GRE and Test Papers:Make a strategy and follow it  religiously to study regularly for each section. Every section of GRE is  unique, thus require diverse preparation.Be thorough with analytical writing.  This section measures candidates’ focus, intelligence for discussion and  their ability to put forth complex ideas with suitable examples. To  gain mastery over analytical skills, read a lot especially articles on  diverse topics and try to analyze them with varied perspectives.Keep your knowledge bank updated. Be  aware of national and international important happenings and events.  Read regular national dailies and magazines that contain information of  latest occurrences of the world. Follow televisions and internet for the  same.Practice for quantitative reasoning.  This section evaluates candidates’ skills to study and interpret the  quantitative issues and how they can use their mathematical skills to  solve them. Subjects like geometry, algebra, arithmetic, probability and  statistics are included. Practice and clarity of concepts can make you  score higher.Get complete hold of verbal reasoning  section by prior practice. This section examines the ability of the  aspirants to comprehend what they have read and how they draw and  investigate conclusions out of it. Read as much as you can English  language materials. Also analyze and write as much as you can.To prepare for GRE select the  preparation books with care. The books should cover all relevant topics  of each and every section of the exam. You can also download study  material from government’s GRE website. Downloading software like  POWERPREP II would be of great help to get acquainted with the tests in  terms of time, questions test design, on-screen calculator and testing  software.Before starting the exam read the questions carefully, understand what answer is required and then start answering.







A typically recommended timeline to start GRE preps is around 3 months before your registered exam date. But it varies depending how good you already are in the areas that ETS tests in the GRE.How to find out how good you already are?Write mock tests. There are many websites which offer free mock tests (eg. GREgde, ManhattenPrep, GRE). These mock tests will give you an idea of what you would score if you were to appear for GRE unprepared. If you score between 300–310 (of course mock tests won't grade your essay), 2–3 hrs daily for 3 months should be more than enough. If you score less, you need to give more time (maybe 3–4 hrs daily for 3 months).But the most important thing is how much time you have. For instance, I had to prepare while I was working. I studied 1–3 hrs daily for 3 months and scored 323 (V158 Q165 AWA 3.5). Whereas one of my batchmates had decided for an MS in the 3rd year of engineering so he had time and he prepared for about 9–12 months. He scored 332, which is a pretty good score.So essentially here's what you should do -Decide where you stand right now and how much time you have for the applications and how much of it can you dedicate for the prep on a daily/weekly basis.Register for the exam accordingly (yes, register an exam date beforehand - costs around $200-$230), and start preparing.Remember this - your GRE score is one of the important factors to get into a good college, so give it it's due importance. Neither less nor more (than required).Hope that helps.







Every person is different. The right time to take the GRE is when it is right for YOU Consider the relevant factors that will affect when you will take the test, and plan from there. For most people who are still in college, the best time to take the GRE is sometime between the spring semester of their 1st year and the fall semester of their Final year. At the very least, make sure that you give yourself adequate time to prepare for the test (at least a couple of months) and plan for the possibility that you may want to retake it if things don’t go perfectly.Below I have mentioned the pattern and some simple strategies that can help you for your preparation;PATTERN (VERBAL, QUANTITATIVE and AWA)VerbalGRE (Reading Comprehension, Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence)Further for GRE, kindly note that for Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence, one needs to have a very good knowledge on the vocabulary and its usage as well. It is not the knowledge of word list alone but its application too is very important.Please Note that the difficulty level for Verbal in GRE is Very Difficult.QuantitativeAlgebraArithmeticGeometryMiscellaneous (Permutation, Combinations, Counting & Probability and Coordinate Geometry)Data Interpretation (Includes Statistics as well)Please Note that GRE Quant is basic 10th standard maths and much much easier. So kindly brush up your basics.Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)In AWA, GRE students are tested on“Analyze an Issue” [30 mins] in which they have to discuss their opinions/give their ideas on the topic“Analyze an Argument” [30 mins] wherein they are expected to identify the Flaws).IMPORTANT INFORMATIONGRE scores are valid for 5 years AND is a Standardized Test. Since GRE test is standardized, the questions are predictable.Simple strategies but could prove to be very effective:Please follow 20 mins strategy. Prepare seriously for 20 mins and then give a small break. Break depends as you can take a 1 min break to an hour. It solely boils down to you. With this strategy, even if you prepare for 10 times a day (10 x 20 mins = 200 mins = 3hrs 20 mins); then you would be able to put in 3hrs and 20 mins of valuable effort. More importantly, you will not have any starting problem as some students struggle to even start.Further, keep yourself fit by doing meditation, yoga and exercises like walking, running etc to keep yourself fit. Staying fit helps you in enhancing the body & mind and in turn helps in increasing the concentration level.Have a clear goal for your preparation. Work everyday with a plan. Systematic and consistent preparation helps you a lot. More importantly, learn it with passion. If you learn with passion, then you can enjoy studying and not creating self inflicted unwanted stress.Clear Plan and GoalI come across students at times who say that they want to do this and that and so on. Have a clear plan, stick onto your goal and learn with passion. You can then achieve what you want.Self Study or Joining Online/Classroom CoachingOne always has an option to go in for self study. But that requires a high level of self motivation, sheer hard work and lots of time to understand the concepts.In turn, if you join coaching institute, it really helps you as you get to learn from the expert faculty in respective areas and it helps you to save a lot of time, as understanding concepts can take time. Further, you tend to learn tips, strategies and short cuts from the faculties.Further for preparation, student can choose online coaching. But then, the rigor of online and classroom coaching definitely differs. Coaching institutes play an important role in imparting strategies and giving a systematic structure to the student.Other than this, student should be sincere to classes and must put the best effort as their is no substitute for hard work.Factors to be Considered for Classroom CoachingIf someone has to choose coaching institute, then the factors to be considered are1) Faculty profiles (that also include qualifications) [In my opinion, that's one of the most important factor],2) Small class size i.e Faculty : Student Ratio (Even this is a very important factor)3) Materials,4) Online Test SeriesOnline test series, personal guidance from expert faculty etc will be missing if you were to prepare on your own.Take Mock TestsFurther, take lots of Mock Tests (after your preparation) and do a lot of self analysis after each and every test. Through this, you would be able to analyze your strengths and weakness. More importantly, you will not repeat the same mistakes again.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.VijayAlumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT







GRE Preparation Books and GRE Study Materials:Educational Testing Service (ETS): The conducting authority of GRE, ETS produces some of the best GRE preparation books. In fact, ETS’s official GRE study materials are must buys for every GRE aspirant. The advantage of preparing from ETS guides is that the sample papers and practice sets are in sync with the actual GRE test. The best in the series is of course the ETS super power pack which includes a bundle of verbal and quantitative GRE preparation books, test preparation materials, expert tips among others. Besides, ETS offers a comprehensive guide which aims at clearing conceptual doubts of the sections.List of ETS GRE study materials:Official super power packThe Official Guide to the GREThe Official Guide to the quantitative reasoningThe Official Guide to verbal reasoningManhattan prep: Manhattan prep’s books are some of the most popular GRE study materials for GRE aspirants.Of course, like in ETS you can go for the whole set or individual GRE preparation books. The Manhattan Prep GRE set includes 8 guides ontopics likeWord problems, decimals, Number properties, algebra among others.A word of caution here-Don’t use the Manhattan prep GRE set as a last minute study tool. This comprehensive set should be a part of your elaborate preparation strategy while you are attempting the topics.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Manhattan Prep:5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems500 Essential Words: GRE Vocabulary Flash CardsManhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesKaplan: Study abroad exams and Kaplan go hand in hand.The education provider has not only been guiding students in their preparation but also offers a wide range of GRE study materials for students preparing for the test. Kaplan’s most popular package is an annual GRE Premier and GRE Complete. Kaplan’s GRE premier has an incredible 2200 practice questions and 6 full length practice tests. Further, it also includes an online QuizBank which has 500 questions for the aspirants to solve.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Kaplan:GRE Premier 2016 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Premier 2017 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Vocabulary FlashcardsGRE Math WorkbookGRE 2017 Strategies, Practice & Review with 4 Practice TestsBarron’s: Known as a master test prep provider, Barron’slist of GRE preparation books offer a comprehensive set of tips and practice tests for GRE aspirants. Barron’s GRE is of course the most popular of the lot. Currently, in its 21st edition, the GRE study materials contains strategies for all the sections- verbal, analytical, and quantitative along with model tests and answer keys. What more. Barron’s GRE study material also gives the buyer free access to its GRE online courses including practice questions and video tutorials.Virant: Vibrant brings out one of the few good GRE preparation books which cater to the analytical writing section of GRE. The most popular of the lot is the latest edition of Vibrant’s GRE Analytical Writing, which offers very simple and clear strategies to ace this section.Best part about these GRE preparation books is that they offer sample essays on topics similar to that which come in GRE tests.Here are some GRE sample papers- GRE Sample Paper







If u prefer self study and looking for good study materials for your prepartion that can fetch u a good score in GRE then have a look on the below mentioned materials.I assure the quality of the materials is top notch.Pdfs include:-1 - The Princeton Review - Cracking the GRE premium 2018 edition2 - Manhattan latest - 4th edition (8 books)3 - Barrons new GRE 19th edition4 - Kaplan GRE preparation 2019 - latest edition.5 - Grubers Complete GRE Guide - 4th edition.6 - ETS official Guide to GRE7 - ETS Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning practice questions8 - ETS official GRE verbal practice questions9 - ETS GRE BIG Book which include 27 test with answers10 - Manhattan preparation GRE Flash cards (1003 pages)11 - 501 series which include:-501 Critical reasoning questions501 Reading comphrension questions501 Grammar and Writing questions501 Sentence completion questions501 Synonyms and Antonyms Questions12 - GRE verbal made easy by barron13 - Word lists by majortest. com (15 pdfs)14 - Common error in english usage15 - Manhattan prepartion 5lb book of GRE practice problems.16 - The Ultimate Guide to GRE Alzebra which include 700 real GRE questions with lucid analysis.Arithmetic which include 1250 real GRE questions with detailed explanation.17 - Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flash Cards.18 - Master the GRE CAT by Acro Petersons.19 - Wren and Martin20 - RS Agarawal Quantitative aptitude21 - ETS paper based revised GRE practice Book.22 - Mcgraw's Hills GRE premium total test preparation program 6 practice tests.23 - Novas GRE maths Bible24 - Word Power made easy25 - SP Bakshi objective General English26 - Kaplan GRE writing wokbook- 3rd edition ( 844 pages)27 - 15000 useful phrases.28 - Magoosh Complete Quant covering 900+ questions with detailed answers.29 - 501 Word analogy and Writing Prompts.30 - Wiley English31 - 3 model question papers of GRE by Ramki's Ultimate Guide.32 - Magoosh 580+ Quant Questions with answers33 - Barrons GRE high frequency 333 words Vocublary list.34 - 100+ Novels35 - English Grammar secrets by Caroline Brown and Pearson Brown36 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Advanced words Flash cards.37 - Kaplan GRE verbal book38 - The Princeton Review word smart for the GRE.39 - Memory techniques by Krupa40 - Magoosh basic videos of Verbal,Quant,Awa etc41 - The Ultimate Guide to Analytical Writing which include:-* Essays on Issues - Lesson and Model essays on 50 Topics* Essays on Arguments - Lesson and model essays on 10 topics.42 - Sample SOP and LOR43 - list of Universities which accept GRE.44 - Barrons Audio Vocabulary ( 14 audio clips)45 - Kaplan writing topics46 - ETS mathematical conventions for the Quantitative Reasoning Book47 - The GRE uncovered - Introduction to GRE by Manhattan48 - Flash cards of Barron 320049 - Magoosh 1000 pdf of common high Frequency words.50 - 501 Quantitative Reasoning questions with answers51 - 1000 Reading comphrension1000 Sentence correction52 - RC 99 by Aristotle53 - Ace the GRE writing Assessment by Acro Petersons54 - VISA Preparation55 - Vocabulary with Pictures56 - KAPLAN Quantitative Reasoning57 - Cliffs Test preparation GRE CBT ( 6th edition)58 - Guide to Geometry which include 8 identified categories with 1240 authentic examples.59 - Barrons GRE common prefix with meaning and illustrations.60 - Ample amount of practice materials for AWA and verbal.61 - Aristotle GRE verbal GRAIL.62 - Nova's GRE prepartion course63 - Princeton new GRE verbal workout64 - Ramki's The Ultimate Guide to Verbal reasoning which include:-Reading comphrension - 380 real GRE questions with answersText completion - 435 real GRE questions with answersSentence Equivalence -120 real GRE questions with answers65 - Magoosh Complete guide to Vocabulary66 - Barrons 6 GRE practice tests.67 - Kaplan GRE Premier with 6 practice tests.68 - ETS GRE general Test Practice book69 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Maths flash Cards (998 pages)70 - GRE full tests for Practice ( 36 Tests with answers)71 - 1014 Practice questions for the new GRE by Princeton Review72 - Manhattan New text completion supplement73 - A student's introduction to English Grammar by Rodney Huddleston and Geoffre K Pullum.I am selling the above mentioned materials at a very nominal amount of Rs 200.U can pay through any of these mobile wallet:- Paytm,Bhim, Phonepe,Tez etc.So interested one (only Indians) can ping me on Whatsapp 7737428150.







Want to prepare for GRE? Here is a 4 step-easy process-Step 1: Get Started with Understanding the GRESo, as the first step, take the time to understand what the GRE will test.GRE Syllabus-1) A section called “Analytical Writing Ability” or AWA, which is basically just essay writingThis section contains two essays:a) “Analysis of an issue” in which you will be asked to write either for, or against a given topic.b) “Analysis of an argument” in which you will be given a situation that you need to argue against.2) Two sections of 35 minutes each for Quantitative Reasoning (fancy-speak for Maths)The four areas in which you will be tested are:a) Arithmeticb) Geometryc) Algebrad) Data Analysis3) Two sections of 30 minutes each for Verbal Reasoning (nothing but plain old English)a) Text Completion in which you will be given a sentence (or two) with one, two, or three blanks. From among the options, you need to pick the word(s) that correctly convey the intended meaning.b) Sentence Equivalence in which you will be given a sentence with one blank and you need to pick two (yes two!) options from among the six given. As you can imagine, the two words you pick should be synonymous, and fit in the blank.c) Reading Comprehension, in which you will be given a passage followed by a set of questions that you need to answer. The answer could either be explicitly stated in the passage (easy!) or implied through context (tough!).4) One section of either Maths or English that is not scoredGRE also gives you one extra section of either Maths or English. Thus, in total, you will have five sectioms.Step 2: Get the right GRE Study MaterialFollowing are the GRE study materials available to you:a) GRE Preparation on the internetWith the advent of online content and fast internet speeds, why would you want to stick to the “traditional” methods of pen and paper? Online GRE preparation gives you the flexibility to study on the go. Test preparation companies such as CrackVerbal offer you great options to study from the convenience of your home. See GRE Online course.b) GRE preparation booksIf you think the internet is a distraction and want to stick to a book, there are several options to choose from. You could either choose resources from a test preparation company like CrackVerbal, or stick to the official books published by ETS, as already discussed. CrackVerbal resources are:The CrackVerbal GRE Verbal GuideThe CrackVerbal GRE Quant Guidec) Free downloadable GRE preparation materialDo you know that Khan Academy has explanatory videos for many topics in the GRE Quantitative Reasoning section? (Trivia: Khan Academy was founded by Salman Khan, who has degrees from MIT and Harvard). You can find the videos here.You can also have a look at learning words through Learning Words the Fun Way – Flashcards. If you find them interesting, you can head over to Amazon to buy the entire set of 500 flashcards with quirky cartoons to help you quickly remember words and their meaning: CrackVerbal’s GRE Flashcards – pack of 500Step 3: Prepare for the GREYou just need a clear GRE study plan that is customized to meet your needs.  For many GRE aspirants, the study plan needs to be designed based on urgency to appear for the exam. For example, if you are planning to apply in August-September (fall intake) and it is already May, you would need an intensive three-month plan to be able to apply with a score.Step 4: Take the GREGRE practice testsBefore you go into the battlefield, you need to ensure that you have enough “match practice”.There is good news and bad news.The good news is that the GRE practice tests offered by ETS. are a fairly accurate indicator of where you will stand on the real test.The bad news is that you have only two full-length practice tests. Hence, after you take the tests, there is really no way to know if you are improving.You can always drop into your nearest CrackVerbal center if you want to take a free test, and have it evaluated by inhouse GRE experts.







Most answers to this question will cover the more popular books on the market. It makes little sense then to discuss books, instead let’s talk about the other resources available to you.GRE Diagnostic Tests: If you’re just starting your preparation, a good (free!) resource you should be taking advantage of is a diagnostic test. This will tell you where you stand currently and which areas require more focus. This is important because it’ll help you streamline your preparation and ensure you spend time only where time is needed.GRE apps: Another great resource I think should be mentioned are GRE apps. Considering how much time we’re likely to spend on our phones on a regular basis, this seems like a terrific option. Accessible anytime, anywhere. You could start with the GRE Test Prep app by Galvanize. It comes with hundreds of GRE questions, excellent explanations to answers as well as a system to track your readiness/progress. And it’s completely free. If you’re looking to hone your verbal skills in particular, there are apps for that as well. Ultimate Vocabulary Prep and GRE Flashcards are some of the more popular apps for the same.GRE forums: For invaluable information from your peers and experts all over the globe, a forum is an absolute no-brainer. You can post questions on anything GRE-related and hope to receive answers. These forums are curated to cater specifically to a GRE-curious crowd so you can be sure to find something of value whenever you need it. Some of the more popular forums include GRE Prepclub, thegradcafe, urch etc.GRE Videos: Make the most of all of the free videos available on YouTube that offer explanations and tips for topics ranging from Permutations & Combinationsto Analytical Writing Analysis. Looking for ‘hacks’ on acing the GRE? There are videos for those as well.As you can see, aside from books, there are plenty of other resources you can and should rely on to give yourself the best possible chance at a high score.Some people have also mentioned GRE prep courses. I’d like to add one as well- Galvanize Test Prep. Galvanize offers comprehensive GRE courses designed by graduates of Stanford, Harvard, IIT & IIM.They’ve even created highly rated the GRE prep and GRE-Vocab building apps I’ve linked above.You should check out their apps or their website and see if it would be a good fit for you!I hope this was helpful to you!Good luck!







Khan Academy edX







For more such articles and awesome techniques to improve vocabulary and test it, head straight to Wordly- Learn Words, Improve Vocabulary - Android Apps on Google Play.The Official Guide to the GRE General Test, 3rd Edition- Educational Testing Services (ETS), the maker of the GRE, offers the only official guide to the test, and we consider it to be the best source for GRE prep. If you must choose only one series, this is the book we suggest you buy. Consider it the Holy Grail. The content in this book is the same a test-taker would find on the actual GRE. Bundled with 4 complete tests, numerous verbal and quant problems and actual graded essays, it is definitely worth the money.PS: You must also buy Official ETS Quant Reasoning and Official ETS Verbal Reasoningbooks separately for the same reasons as previously stated.Manhattan Prep- Manhattan Prep, a leader in test-taking readiness, offers a wide extent of products to help you prepare for the exam. A test taker has two options broadly based on the time until the test:- The first is that Manhattan Prep offers eight test-taking strategy guides, focusing on each of the tests content areas including Algebra; Fractions, Decimals, &amp; Percents; Geometry; Number Properties; Word Problems; Quantitative comparisons and Data Interpretation; Reading Comprehensions and Essays; and Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence. This is great for those who have sufficient time to solve them and are continuously motivated. One thing is for sure, if one does this, the vastness of questions will make sure that one’s GRE is nothing more than a piece of cake. The second option is for those who are seeking good quality problems and Manhattan Prep provides its all-in-one book titled 5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems. This book caters to all of a test takers problems and is a must buy for those who have their exams around the corner. PS: Also available from Manhattan Prep are "GRE Reading Comprehension & Essays", "500 Essential Words: GRE Vocabulary Flash Cards", and more.Barron's GRE, 21st Edition- Barron’s claims itself to be the leaders in the test prep, and their GRE preparation book definitely bolsters their claims. This 624-page book comes with one diagnostic and two full-length tests. They also have two types of wordlists-complete and high frequency-that help you in preparing well for the actual test. Additionally, not only are all answers provided for the sample tests, but Barron provides explanations for the answers as well to help you fully prepare for what you will come across on the GRE. With the purchase of this book, you can access Barron's online GRE Course and iPad app for essay preparation.Princeton Review’s, Cracking the GRE Premium Edition 2018- Cracking the GRE Premium Edition, 2018, provides students with an exhaustive review of all GRE topics; practice questions with detailed answer explanations; key strategies for solving Text Completions, Sentence Equivalents, Numeric Entry and Quantitative Comparisons. Buying the Premium Edition also includes access to additional practice tests and extra test strategies, review and practice through our Premium Portal online. Additionally, this book offers 6 practice tests unlike any of the aforementioned sources. PS: They also offer 1,007 GRE Practice Questions which is quite nifty.Kaplan's, GRE Prep Plus 2018- GRE Prep Plus 2018 is arguably the largest in terms of its question bank. This book boasts of 2200+ questions and 500 more in online Quiz Bank. The USP of this book is probably that it not only prepares you for GRE(through both offline and online app) but also guides you on how to manage stress and how to go about the graduate school application process. Furthermore, you can get academic support from Kaplan faculty by connecting with them on their Facebook page. With full-length tests and numerous test-taking strategies, this book is worth the money. PS: Also available from Kaplan GRE are "GRE Vocabulary Flashcards" and "GRE Math Workbook".







I took the GRE this past November and scored 170/170 Quant and 163 / 170 Verbal and prepped for about 1.5 to 2 months. Feel free to message with me with any questions at shalini@grovenue.comMy vocabulary prep involved the following:I started by studying the flash cards by Magoosh - their app is simple, interactive and offline mode-enabled (I think). Very useful to keep revising words when you’re on the go or have a few minutes to spare.Making sure I knew the answer to words in the 5lb book by Manhattan GMAT - they also have a pretty cool online tool with the words.Reading NYT, WSJ and the Economist to understand usage of words - also helps remember words, a LOT.Creating fun mnemonics based on my personal experiences to remember words with similar (but not the same) meaning.Making a list of potential synonyms. For example, profligate and prodigal both have similar meanings and are much easier to remember when you link them in your mind.Practicing the verbal questions (especially sentence completion) for at least 1–2 hours each day. It was great practice and I discovered new words to learn this way.







The best way to memorize a GRE word list and probably the basic thing to learn is to use a word as you learn. If you are even an average guy in English vocab you don’t need to feel crestfallen by seeing the huge word lists. There are apps membean(web only) Divii English and illustrate on the playstore which will show you how to use a particular word by videos. This would help you remember the word much easily and develop your vocab as you dive deep into the word list. Because you know how to use a word completely rather than just remembering it you have minimal chances of forgetting it. To remember it for even longer time you could just make a book containing your usage of the vocab you are learning. with this you don’t need an year you could just do it in a month or two.







To have learning ability is to possess a second soul.Glad to know that you feel the importance of GRE Vocabulary. I saw many people who even did not listen the name of it. The GRE vocabulary words section can be quite tricky and hazardous but with the right preparations & practice as well you can improve your score. The verbal segment is highly reliant on GRE vocabulary and reading comprehension for the best preparations, so make sure you spend a lot of time focusing on both of skills.I would not suggest you a number of sites to prepare for GRE vocabulary words but the one and only I prefer is wifistudy. Not only for vocabulary words, the website lets you enjoy learning English vocabulary words that are necessary while gearing up for GRE vocabulary words. I consider it as the prime source for the bonzer preparation for vocabulary words for any purposes. As I’m not a supporter of the website, I will mention only three main features of the site I love most.The Three Main Features Of The Best Site For GRE VocabularyDaily Vocab: The most appreciated feature of the website is Daily Vocab. This is one and only that allows you to learn new GRE words with its synonyms and antonyms on daily basis in the form of an interesting article. Also it will let you know the tiny difference between words and phrases accordingly.GRE Vocab Quiz: It is said that, “PRACTICE MAKES A MAN PERFECT”. The line has proven via GRE vocab quiz. The more you practice on vocabulary words the more you will be dexterous at it. Take daily quiz to prepare for GRE vocabulary better than best.Video Lessons: Videos put great impact on our mind. May be having this thing in mind, the website owner has embedded the video lessons for the users. Anyways, whether it is true or not, I loved these video lessons a lot and no doubt these GRE vocabulary videos helped me to be dab-hand at GRE vocabulary.Utilizing the best website ever for GRE vocabulary, you will be able to beef up your GRE vocabulary skills. A great tactic to practice for the GRE vocabulary for verbal section is to use vocabulary rhymes in communication. By making the learning process entertaining and fun you are much more likely to live more time studying and less time worrying.







Hi there!The verbal part can be tough for some people. Fortunately, there are several free resources available on the net.I recommend you to refer to the lectures on EduSaathi's website, or their YouTube channel. It will help you greatly.







The GRE tests words that ETS (the creator of the GRE) believes the average college-educated adult should know. So, while preparing yourself for GRE you must be very concentrated as words are not very easy, but they are tricky. Some points you should keep in mind are:Go for Long Term. If you have the opportunity, spread out your vocabulary studying over a long time. ...Use Flashcards. Flash cards may sound a little old fashioned, but they are still one of the most effective ways to learn new words. ...Write Down Unfamiliar Words. ...Use the words in you daily routine.Learn Your Word Roots. ...Repeat. ...Some sites where you can go through to prepare yourself well.Vocabulary.com & study.com : These are two top sites which are now a days very famous you can easily take words from here and practice.Memrise : Through this you can get hot words for GRE from BARRONS & MANHATTAN.Daily vocab: The most appreciated feature of the website is Daily Vocab. This is one and only that allows you to learn new GRE words with its synonyms and antonyms on daily basis in the form of an interesting article.Ultimate vocabulary prep application for mobile: best way to study is nowadays is on smart phone, by this you can study whenever and wherever you like.Lecture from EduSaathi’s website: Having a YouTube channel is very good you can practice online on YouTubeVocabSmith: Another website which can be very helpful and has number of words to get perfect.. These are some important sites by which you can go through all the vocabulary . Even ultimate vocabulary app can be handy for GRE.for more contact







It worked like a gem for me. According to my knowledge 80% of the questions came from this Manhattan 5lb . I just prepared only 13 days with this book and scored 327.It’s simply an amazing book. I recommend itYou can also try these materials. If you want a good result in short term. Your preparation should be very crispy and lucid. Acheving a good score with these books is not a big task. believe me.Download link: HereI read it thoroughly, worked out every single problem, and went through their sample essays as well. I didn't look at their word lists though. I highly recommend their Quant section- It is as close to the real GRE as possible without being written by ETS themselves. Their Verbal section places more emphasis on knowing horribly obscure words, and isn't as good as the Quant section. Despite that, I would still recommend doing Short RC and RC passages from the book, and taking all the tests they have at the end of the book. Go through the TC and SE parts, but don't worry if you don't know most of the words they use.Finally For quant Manhattan 5lb book is more than equal to the actual GRE. It helps you a lot for your quant training. Just getting through that book will be enough for quant.Source- MS DEGREE IN US







tl; drONE MONTH IS ALL YOU NEED.Long VersionThis answer is for the average person whose Quant skills are better than the Verbal skills + Vocabulary.I gave my GRE in December and I prepared for about 25 days. A little background, first. I’m a working professional so I obviously had to tackle work hours with my prep. Thankfully, I had a very understanding supervisor who relaxed the work timings; this spared me about 6–7 hours each day to study each day.There have been many answers, so I’m only going to describe in detail what I did differently and pertaining to the fact that I had prior commitments as well. My TOEFL exam was scheduled 4 days after my GRE exam and so I devoted some time to that too. This resulted in my GRE prep per day being restricted to just 5 hours.Verbal: Refer the following booksWord Power Made Easy: I CANNOT emphasize the importance of this book enough. Not only does this book give you a reference to the most used words in GRE (RC + TC), but it gives you a way to remember about 100 words per day. Playing with the roots of a word, each chapter introduces about 40–60 new words. The practice sections with each chapter are very easy to follow and use the associative memory techniques in order to help you memorize. Do two chapters each day and practice with the exercises given. The last section gives you a comprehensive list of the most common words of GRE. If you have even lesser time, just follow this last section and you’re good to go.Magoosh Flashcards: 1 Basic + 1 Common + 1 Advanced section each day. Revise the words learnt that you learnt the previous day. WRITE each unknown word down with the meaning and the sentence. I made the mistake of not doing this and had to repeat all the words. DO NOT BE LAZY. THIS IS NOT THE TIME. Ask your parents/ friends to help you with this. Make your own flash cards if required. I troubled my roommate each night with my list, though she was more concerned for my handwriting.Official Guide(s): I bought the ETS OG (GRE complete + Verbal). Try for second hand, as these can be costly and you might want to resell them as well. Do 60 Verbal questions each day. I followed 20 RC + 20 TC + 20 SE. Took 45–60 minutes for the whole thing. MAKE SURE YOU ATTEMPT EACH QUESTION OF THE OG AT LEAST THRICE. I mean it. Go for it with some gap between each pass. I used Manhattan as my break in between each OG completion.Manhattan 5lb : Logical RC section of this book is just AWESOME. Competes with the GMAT CR section. Do each verbal section. But one pass was enough for me, with mistake correction and revision, of course. This is true for all the above. If you’re not learning from your mistakes, the study is redundant. Cliched, but true.Quant: Now I was pretty confident about this section, but I like solving any math problem ( I’m applying for MS Statistics) so I used to come to this any time I felt exhausted with work or Verbal prep. Preferably follow the same technique - work on your less stronger section when you’re fresh and the other section that you can maybe do in your sleep as well.OG: Again, do each question thrice. Do not forget the Math Review. Each topic has at least 1 question that will leave you stumped. You will either do a calculation mistake or even if you get an answer right, you’ll choose some wrong answer because of some carelessness. I majored in this, though that was because I was always exhausted by the time I came to this section (which was in the evening after work). But this kind of made me used to being worked up, which was a plus considering the fact that I had quant as an experimental section (Yayy)Manhattan 5lb: Now since you have a month, you should only focus on the areas in quant in which you’re scoring less than 90% regularly. In ym case, I went for inequalities, data interpretation (since I was constantly making calculation mistakes) and geometry (coordinate and figures). I practiced all the questions in each section. Just prioritize while working on this because there are many subparts and you wouldn’t want to spend too much time on concepts you’re already good in.Again, I was pretty strong in this section so I focussed more on the former.Practice tests: You should have access to 2 OG full length practice tests and 2 Powerprep Software tests. The latter ones are most important, hence use them at special times. Apart from these, you can access 1 free practice test from Manhattan and 1 from Kaplan. Use all tests as diagnostic tests. Take each test on the day you can spare sufficient time for the diagnosis and replicate actual test conditions as much as possible. VERY IMPORTANT.Test 1 (Powerprep Test 1): Right before starting your prep. Figure out weak areas. Plan your timeline.Test 2 (OG Guide paper based 1): Week 1 endTest 3 (Manhattan): Week 2 endTest 4 (OG Guide paper based 2) : Week 3 endTest 5 (Kaplan): Week 4 2nd dayTest 6 (Powerprep Test 2): Week 4 End, preferably couple days before D-dayBy now, you should be thoroughly prepared. I know I was, even though I was constantly worried about vocab. That’s natural and I know that now. Consider it an omen of good luck.Some general tips :When giving mock tests, try to simulate actual test conditions. In the last mock, THIS IS A MUST. This means, if your scheduled exam is at 10 am, on the day of the mock, wake up at 6–7 am and get ready earlier. Keep a snack in hand and practice one extra section before ( there will be 1 experimental section in GRE exam that messes you up so much)Restrict your sleep to 6 hours. It’s only for a month and this much is needed.ACT sane. I mean act because you will feel exhausted ALL the time if you’re handling two-three commitments at a time, like I was. So it is natural that you would want to run like a madman at one time or shout at people just for taking your pen without your consent ( If not, maybe I need therapy. Let me know. I’m Ross with MY SANDWICH) So just act like you’re in a play and it’s for a month.Follow a TV show for the entire duration. Helps in maintaining consistency. And choose just 1 TV series that will last you for that entire month. It will help you focus, have a set routine and will prove to be a healthy distraction unlike social media websites. Be careful to restrict this to just 1–2 slots per day. I went with Narcos and watched it in parts ( 25 min each )In case you’re an amnesiac in making, like me, you might want to try almonds. 8–10 nuts a day. Almonds.Have friends around who will encourage you. Involve as many people as possible. Contrary to popular belief, it will help you in your prep since you can discuss with others and studying alone ALL the time will frustrate you. Have someone take your dictation, invent games for vocab like charades etc. Add to this their happiness when you receive a good score (which you will); they’ll feel like they were a part of your journey. Win-win!Put your target universities and scores in front of you so you feel a sense of motivation everytime you look up. I stuck these post-it notes on my wall so it was the first thing I saw when I woke up and the last thing before I went to sleep. Yes, yes. Stanford. LOL. My GRE target was 340. So.This is important so you don’t lose track to various distractions.8. Have fun. When it’s over, you’ll feel a sense of massive achievement. Such satisfaction, much wow. You might even miss it because it will be the single most focused thing you do before getting an offer from your dream uni.Hope this helps. Questions in the comments, please!







Blog link: - Prepare for the GRE in a month[DISCLAIMER] : If you are someone who is aiming at a 335+ score in GRE you should probably avoid reading this article as you would need a much more meticulous preparation for the exam. A month or less would be insufficient according to me. If you are looking at a score which is 320/325+ (which according to me is a good score)/ or if you are looking at a full score in quant you should probably continue reading. Also if you want to prepare for GRE in a month then this should be the only thing you should be doing for that month.If you are working/ at college you might need more time.PREPARING FOR THE GREAs the article suggests, I'm writing how to prepare for the GRE in a month so this is my strategy : Preparation for 25 days, Practice Tests for 4 days and Chill for 1 day (day before the exam). A lot of people book dates quite in advance and say they have 2-3 months to prepare, but even they end up studying only in the last month. By the end of your third year, you don't move your ass until its on fire. xD . So deal with reality, you might plan and make schedules/ to-do lists to start studying from 3 months in advance but you won't.QUANTITATIVE REASONINGI believe the level of questions that is asked in the GRE in QR is pretty low. For a person who has prepared for IIT/AIEEE these questions might appear very kiddish. However the catch here is that although the questions appear to be easy one has to be perfect in them. I believe a 170 in QR ( If I can get it , anybody can ) is easily gettable and is a big boost to your score. It means that you need to be perfect in all the questions that you answer and CANNOT afford to make even a single mistake. This is the trick: Keeping your calm, Solving and Marking EVERYTHING correctly, Trust me there is nothing that you don't know.I believe this should be your strategy:Preparation StrategyTake up one topic each day: Solve the same topic from "5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problem " and from "1014 Practice Questions for the New GRE" . There will be about 15-20 topics in each book. So you should be done with that in about 20 days. Next take up " The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test, 2nd Edition" [Yes, Buy it] and finish up the Quant part of the book in 5 days. Voila! 25 days and you are done with Quant. There is no need to spend time doing the theory. Get straight down to the problems. If you get stuck in them and you need to know something from the theory just Google it and you will be done. For example while solving certain questions on circles you might need to revise certain properties and you can look them up as you are solving.Answering Strategy : 1 question 1 minuteIdeally this is what I believe: For the 20 questions asked in 35 mins. You should finish it in 20 minutes and take a good 15 minutes to go revise. Go through each question that you have answered and check if its correct. Do not panic if you cant do a question in a minute. Some might take longer and some maybe done in a few seconds. I believe the revision part is the key and it is this time that will ensure perfection. As I said Perfection (170/170) is the key.DATA INTERPRETATIONThis is something you might not have dealt with before or had lesser experience with as compared to geometry/arithmetic/algebra. This is again pretty easy. I would suggest that apart from solving this topic from the above books mentioned. Do solve the problems from these books. Click Here . Remember the wording of these questions might be a little tricky and so read the WHOLE question properly before you start answering. Also the "1 question 1 minute" might fail here but as I said there will be other questions that will finish in a few seconds.VERBAL REASONINGThis is a tough nut to crack. However, if you have your basic grammar skills right you shoud be able to score around 155-160 in Verbal. I personally scored 155 even though I had screwed up one section of Verbal and so I think you can easily score well in Verbal too if you have been practising diligently. I'll begin by talking about the Vocab Part.Preparation StrategyLEARNING WORDSLike it or not you have to do this. This is how I would want you to go about doing this. I recommend three sources :a) Barron's 800 Essential Word List - GRE (800 words)b) Android Apps on Google Play (1000 words)c) Barron & Kaplan GRE Words (514 words) (514 words)Start with (a) and (b) . Begin your day with 40 words from (a) in the morning. Do 40 words from (b) during the afternoon and before you go to sleep do (20) words from (a) . When you finish (a) you will be left with (b) and you will be at Adanced Level of (b) so you can allocate your time accordingly so that at the end of 20 days you are done with the 1800 words. I have planned for 100 words a day so you should finish in 18 days. Keep a buffer of 2 days in case things don't work some day.The memrise technique of learning through visual clues/memes is pretty interesting and helps you remember stuff.Remember: Before you begin with the 40 new words in the morning, REVISE the 40 you had learnt the earlier day in the morning. Before you begin with the 40 from (b), REVISE what you had learnt from (b) the previous day. Keep revising what you learnt before.At the end of 20 days you will be done with (a) and (b) . Now start with (c) . This will basically be a subset of (a) and (b). So this is revision. 100 words a day X 5 days, and you are done with (c). So, you are done with your vocabulary in 25 days.READING COMPREHENSIONThis according to me is the most crucial part. It is this which can make or break your GRE. For someone who's vocab is not that good, this becomes even more important. RC is nothing but just pure strategy and keeping your calm. You can only perfect this through practice and NOTHING else. The options are very confusing and you may get mislead, hence it is important that you keep practising every day. I would suggest that you keep doing 2 paragraphs a day. So in roughly about 25 days. You would have solved around 50 passages. If you need more practice you might have to increase that number but you CANNOT afford to take this up lightly.Solve RC from the following book: Big Book 27 tests. It has a series of 27 tests. Each has 4 passages : 2 long and 2 short. The Big Book is based on the Old GRE. in the previous GRE there used to be many more questions per passage. It would even upto 7 questions a passage. However, in the New GRE, there will be passages which have 1/2/3/4 questions. I believe that if you solve RC from the Big Book and are able to do it then you can easily crack the RC for the New GRE. You might find it tough initially , but keep solving and learning from your mistakes and one day you will be able to solve the Big Book passages with ease. Initially for about 5-10 days you need not time yourself but once you cross 10 days time yourself. You might also want to have a look at these books : 501 RC Questions / Manhattan RCTEXT AND SENTENCE EQUIVALENCE/COMPLETIONA good vocab is pointless if you don't know how to use it. After you have learnt your vocab keep practising from the following books: 501 SC Questions / Manhattan SC . Solve from these two books. Also you can have a look at the 5 lb pound book suggested earlier. Keep aside days 20-25 to prepare from the ETS Book. So in 20 days try and work maximum problems from the books suggested above. Then go on and take some time to solve questions from the ETS Book.Answering StrategyFor the verbal section you will have 20 questions in 30 minutes. My strength was RC so I dedicated a good amount of time to it. A quick advice: There will be questions which have 3 blanks to fill, do not spend a lot of time thinking on those questions if that is not your strong area. The chances of making an error is quite high. In the first section of Verbal I answered, I wasted a lot of time on it and when I looked at the watch I had 10 minutes left and 10 questions to finish and these were the bigger RC questions. Make sure you never reach such a stage. Know that the RC questions are going to take time and are lengthy. Finish them up first if you want to. Ideally you have 1.5 minutes for each question. So, a standard passage of 3 questions should definitely be done in under 5 minutes. Devise a strategy for yourself before you go on to Practice Tests based on your areas of strength.PRACTICE TESTSSo after around 25 days of prep you should be more confident in your prep and it's a good time to start writing practice tests . Write one a day in exactly the same time slot as you have booked your test slot. These are the 4 practice tests I would suggest.2 from the ETS CD you would have recieved when you bought the book1 Manhattan1 Princeton Review/Kaplan (Google it!)Follow all the rules and do it diligently as if it were a real tests. Analyse your mistakes and see were you went wrong. Keep improving and doing better. These were roughly my scores:1st Test - ETS - 3152nd Test - Manhattan - 3183rd Test - ETS - 3204th Test - Princeton Review - 322In the end , in the actual GRE I got 325 (V:155,Q:170, AWA: 5.0) . I believe I could have got around 328-330.Hope this post helps you in your prep / at least motivates you that you can prepare for GRE in a month if you do it whole-heartedly.Cheers.







Thanks for A2A1 month is more than enough if you are willing to put 4+hours preparation time per day.If you are from engineering background and aiming for MS in engineering then concentrate less on verbal, because more emphasis will be laid just on your Quant score for admissions. A165+ is an excellent quant score, and a 160+ is a good one. With one month dedicated preparation and the below strategy, 162+ is easily achievable.   To get an idea of exam, its better to complete this book:The Official Guide to GRE , Second edition. Its available in this link: https://drive.google.com/folderv...Firstly, below is a good strategy used by me and many of my friends and all of us managed to get 162+ in quant with approx 1 month preparation.1. Complete book number 3 and 5 in this link:https://drive.google.com/folderv...Time: 3day/book 2. Do Counting , Probability & Statistics, Permutations & Combinations from the book "NOVA MATHS BIBLE" in this link: https://drive.google.com/folderv...Time: 2-3daysAfter completing above 2 points, you will be in a position to easily score 160+ because usually the once's mentioned above are where we loose most marks.3. This is final stage. Start solving all quant's from the book "5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems" (try to find ebook in the google drive links mentioned earlier) . Go from topics which you feel is difficult (like work , ratio etc) to easier onces (like functions etc) . Aim to finish 2topics/day, this way you can complete the whole book is 2weeks, depending on your speed.Time: 2 weeks depends on effort/day4. After all this if you still want to practice, you can use this book:  https://www.facebook.com/groups/...Time: 1 day5. What will help most is, taking 4 free full length exams from this link:Follow these steps to get free full tests:1. Go to http://www.princetonreview.com/c...2. Enter the ISBN as 9780307945648.3. Create an account on their site.P.S : The advantage of PR Tests is that they will grade your essays.!You can review each answer, plus they will review essay and give marks.Doing first 4 points will just help us in tackling all types of problems, but only while taking timed test, we will learn to solve problems in given time.Secondly, I would not suggest anything for verbal preparation. Its a waste of time to learn so many words.Many of us who studied around 250 words scored 150+, many of my friends had done 1500+ words and scored lesser than 150. Its purely luck.But if you have enough time and you wish to prepare well, you can do  "BARRONS 333 HIGH FREQUENCY WORD LIST"Its more than sufficient.Thirdly,  GRE-AWA is very very important.You have to get above 3/6, else universities will reject.People often neglect this and suffer.There r 2 types of essays:1)     Go through these samples:  http://www.testpreppractice.net/...2)     Go through these samples : http://www.testpreppractice.net/...Read 5-10 essays in above links and get a clue as to how to go about in the exam.Practice essays in all Princeton tests.Don’t skip any essay in any mock tests.Including,Powerprep.This much is more than enough to get 3+.Lastly, download ETS POWERPREP 2 SOFTWARE available in ETS website.Take the 1st test 3weeks before GRE.2nd test 1 week before GRE.Final score will be usually in between scores of these 2 tests.All the best! :)







Dear GRE aspirant,Here is a 30 Days GRE preparation plan which will be very helpful for your GRE preparation:Day 0: Make a meticulous hour-by-hour plan for the next 30 days.Here are the guidelines:Decide how many hours you are going to study on each of these 30 days. Create an hourly spreadsheet.Take stock of:The portion that you have completed and are confident about.The portion where you need to prepare more. It could be: Particular topics of the Quantitative section Specific question types (or sub-types) of the Verbal section.How many new words can you realistically add to your vocabulary in the next 30 days?Do you need to practice writing some essays for AWA?Using the above guidelines, create a list of study-items that you need to complete before GRE. Arrange as per priority. The list, understandably, will always be long regardless of when you begin your GRE preparation! Pick those items that can give you maximum bang for the buck.Map these work-items into the study hours decided by you for the 30 days.Plan to complete the most important of these items in the first 15 days.Do budget a little time for relaxation!Days 1- Day 15:Intense preparation phase. Try your best to stick to the plan that you have made. Use in-between hours to revise words and revise Quant topics, especially formulas/properties.Day 16: StocktakingYou would have developed a good regimen by now. Take stock of your progress with respect to the study-plan that you had created.Include study items that you feel are important for you to complete before your GRE. Schedule these tasks in the next 8 to 10 days.The next phase is essentially to develop:Time management strategyMental and physical stamina to sit focused through a four-hour test that switches between Quant, Verbal, and Essay-writing.These are achieved by taking a good number of mock GRE-style tests and full-length adaptive tests.Days 16-24: Mock Testing to Develop Time Management Strategy.Begin your practice by taking mock tests, separately for Verbal, Quant, and AWA.These tests should mimic the standard two-section (40 question) format of the ETS GRETry to take one or two such tests for Verbal and the same number for Quant. It will be good if you can do more.Try to write at least 3 or 4 essays on AWA Issue and AWA Argument. Get them evaluated by a Verbal expert.Use the rest of the time for a few study-items that you could not complete in the first fortnight as per your list.Continue to learn and revise words.In developing your time management strategy, make a mental note of: how much of time you should spend on a particular question type, what is the order in which you should answer the questions, and when is the right time to move on if a question takes too long.Days 25-30: Taking FLT(full length tests) to Develop Time Management Strategy and Simulate the GRE ExperienceReserve the last five days to take full-length adaptive tests. About 7 or 8 tests is ideal. Two of these should be the ETS PowerPrep tests, while the rest can be from a variety of reliable sources that provide the equivalent of GRE experience.You should take these tests to develop the necessary mental and physical stamina to sit through the close to four-hour GRE test.Note that each test can take 3.5 to 4 hours. It can be quite exhausting. It may not be possible to take more than two tests a day. You need to be mentally fresh before you take these tests, just as you would be on the day of the test. So simulate that mental preparedness and then give the test in the same frame of mind as you would if it was the actual test.After each test, analyze your performance, fine-tune your time management strategy, and identify your weak areas.Since time is at a premium at this stage, give priority to revising those items that you are confident of, where you just need to do a bit of revision.In the last week, revise word lists, deepen your existing knowledge, rather than trying to learn new stuff at this stage.Wishing you all the best!







One month is more than enough for your GRE prep.Here’s how you can finish your prep confidently in 20 days :QUANT:The quant section of the GRE is extremely easy, in my opinion. It is just basic 10th grade math without any twists or tricks in the questions, and hence the solutions are fairly straightforward. Make sure that you read the questions right, because whatever error might happen in the quant section might be due to reading the question incorrectly in a hurry.http://www.4deducationhub.com/ad...^ You can use this book to prep for your quant section. The questions are of a variety of types and there are about 30 chapters of maths. Even if you finish 2 chapters a day, you can hit your target in just 15 days.Remember that this is one section you can easily score in and HAVE to score in because the verbal is a bit tougher.VERBAL:Now, coming to the verbal section.GRE Flashcards - Android Apps on Google Play^ This is one app that you’ve got to have if you’re looking to get a decent score on the verbal section. It has a lot of words sorted into decks of 50 words each. Therefore even if you do one deck per day for 12 days, you can finish about 700 words in about just over two weeks.As far as practice for the verbal section is concerned, just concentrate on the reading comprehension questions, as they are a tough nut to crack.The trick to the verbal section is knowing the meaning to as many words as possible so that you can eliminate the wrong answers even if you don’t know the right one.AWA:Read a couple of AWA samples that are given on the ETS website. That should be sufficient to give you a hang of what the section demands of the test takers. This is not something you can prep for and have to improvise on the day of the exam. Once you have an idea on how to formulate your issue/argument, you just have the time to take care of. Spend a couple of minutes jotting down points which you will be making in your answer so that you don’t spend time on that whilst answering the question.Introduction to the GRE Argument Task (For Test Takers)Introduction to the GRE Issue Task (For Test Takers)^ Go through the sample responses. They’ll help massively.Remember that in the AWA section, the cogency of your thought process matters more than fancy vocabulary. Don’t expend time on fishing for alternative words, but rather make sure there’s clarity in the way your argument is structured.EXAM DAY:Don’t get stressed out. GRE is more an exam of patience and composure than quant and verbal. Be calm even if you don’t know the answer to a particular question. Also, this is an adaptive test. So the better you perform in a particular section, the better the chances of you securing a high scoring section next.Also, carry something with carbs, something like a snickers bar, to eat during the break. Your brain will be exhausted after the first half and will need the nutrients to get up and running. Drink some water, too.PRACTICE TESTS:Free GRE Practice Test OptionsGRE POWERPREP II Software (For Test Takers)These are four practice tests right here. One by Kaplan, two timed tests by ETS and one untimed test by ETS.These can help you practice and see if you’re hitting your targets.One tip : take the Kaplan test before you start prepping as they give an analysis at the end of the test about the areas that you’re weak in. This will be telling of which areas need concentration more than others during the course of your prep.I hope that helps.All the very best! Cheers!







One month preparation might seem a bit difficult for a few but again it is not impossible. There are several online prep courses such as Magoosh’s one month course plan, Manhattan prep (You will get set of 8 books) etc. These courses are like crash courses and have all the materials split for 1 month such as question banks, practice papers etc. Preparing for GRE (verbal section + analytical section + AWA) in one month is going to be really tiring though. You may also start from Official guide to GRE to get an idea related to this exam since you are starting from scratch.For the quants section you should be well versed with topic such as linear equations, statistics, probability, algebra, fractions, data interpretation, simple interest, compound interest, profit loss etc. There are question related to all of the topics and they follow a certain pattern. So this understanding of the patters will only come to you with practice.It is an added advantage for you that you have a bachelor’s degree in English. Preparing for verbal section would be a lot easier in your case. For the verbal section you need to master at least a 1000–1500 words (Barron’s essential words) with their implementation and correct usage. You will need to solve RC passages, do argument analysis etc. For this task also you will need to be a voracious reader so that you practice these spheres effortlessly.GRE does not test anyone's ability to remember, memorize but it tests execution of your understanding. So keep practicing sedulously and thoroughly and make sure you time your progress because time is very important aspect of this Exam. So if you feel you are getting stuck a particular question do not waste your time hovering over it. Move on! And please practice a minimum of 5–6 sample papers before you attempt your final paper. Good luck!







GRE has three main components namely verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning and analytical writing. Your entire preparation process should revolve around acquiring good skills on these areas and mastering the concepts required.Some of the things which you can do to get the required concept clarity areQuantitative reasoning:The best part about GRE Math is the absence of things which most of us hate in Math - The integral calculus, trigonometry and other complicated stuff. GRE Math is mostly things which you learned in junior/ high school - Things like interger properties, word problems (rate of work, speed, probability etc) which can be solved with basic common sense. Not much beyond that.What makes the GRE so tricky is the interpretation of the questions part. Once you figure out what the question is asking, the math involved is definitely easier than what you faced in your high school. In fact, it is more fun as you don't need to write down each and every step and show your teacher on how you arrived at your answer. You just need to pick an answer. In short, the math section just tests your ability to reason with numbers.Verbal reasoning:Verbal reasoning section is even more simple with there being only 3 question types - text completion, critical reasoning and reading comprehension. The preparation process should be fully focused on knowing specific strategies for cracking these questions rather than generic preparation advocated.For example, use of flash cards for learning new words was very helpful in the earlier format of the test where antonyms and analogies were asked and there was more emphasis on rote learning of words. But, the current format focuses more on understanding not only the literal meaning of the words but also the metaphorical use of the word based on the context. For example, while the word 'opaque' literally means 'not transparent', it could also mean 'difficult to interpret or understand' if used in the right context. Similarly, there are no questions asking you to identify any grammar errors. Grammar is important only for your essay writing section. Hence, it makes sense not to rely on these old fashioned methods advocated by coaching institutes but to just keep focusing on the 3 question types.Analytical writing:Analytical writing section asks you to write 2 essays - one on "The Issue" and the other on "The Argument". The major difference here is in the first essay you are asked to take a stand on a complex issue whereas in the second essay you are asked to dissect the logic behind an already taken stand or position.How do I prepare for this? You just need to follow a simple routine and you are guaranteed to score well in this section.Choose - Structure - Write - Compare - Improve - ChooseStep 1: You choose a topic where you already have some well written sample essays. You can pick these up either in the official site or from the many blogs available online.Step 2: Come up with a structure and an outline.Step 3: Write an essay by developing the structure and the outline.Step 4: Compare it with other essays written on the topic.Step 5: Rewrite your essay to improve it.Step 6: Go to Step 1.--------------------If you do all of the above, you are going to definitely score well on your GRE.Check out Magnus Prep's GRE Program if you are looking for some great mentors to help with your GRE preparation.Cheers!







When I started preparing for GRE, I realized that though I was quite comfortable with Quantitative Section,  I was a total noob at Verbal, be it vocabulary or reading comprehension. I had precisely three months to prepare. I surfed through the net and found that the New GRE was "context intensive" unlike its older version which was "vocabulary intensive". In other words, it was your "depth of knowledge" in vocabulary and not the breadth that mattered, which meant I could cut short my target vocabulary bank from 4000 to 1500 but with a caveat that I had to learn those 1500 words inside out, their usage in context of the sentence, which included not just primary, but secondary and tertiary meanings.Note: Below is the study pattern that I followed and it worked for me, but this is not the only way, you can always modify it as per your style. This is more focused on verbal section as I was fairly comfortable in the quantitative section from the beginning. I hope it proves helpful to you as well.1. First Month: ConditioningAs Norman Lewis puts it, if the Vocabulary Bank is Calcium, then extensive reading is Vitamin D. There is no point in taking more and more calcium if you don't have sufficient Vitamin D to absorb it.First Three Weeks: Work out (don't just read, work it out with pencil) "Word Power Made Easy" by Norman Lewis. It has 45 sessions. Finish 15 sessions per week, roughly 1.5-2 hours per day.In parallel, start reading one newspaper EXTENSIVELY. Read it inside out (of course there are some sections which are just not your type, you can leave out those 2-3 pages). I started reading Economic Times because I had an inclination for business news (and with all those graphs and pie charts, it inadvertently prepared me for Data Interpretation as well) Fourth Week: Time for some extra Vitamin D. Pick up one novel (preferably a motivational one) and read it voraciously, just finish it off in one week and don't forget to mark the new words that you come across while reading. Initially, it will pose some difficulty to those who are not into reading. I myself had a bitter start but a good novel will absorb you into it as you proceed. (I read The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand, it took me 12 days and yes, it really pumped me up)Meanwhile, continue with the newspaper DAILY.So, it's been one month now. Don't expect anything from yourself yet. By this time, you have a cursory vocabulary bank of 400-500 words and through extensive reading of newspaper and a novel, you have conditioned yourself for the next phase.2. Second Month: Hitting the Bull's Eye=>The typical "GRE" way Now it's time to learn some real vocabulary, for the next three weeks, don't think of anything else but vocabulary. There are three different sources for high and medium frequency words that I'm going to mention below, but the good thing is, most of the words from these word lists overlap.First Three Weeks:Sign up at Vocabulary.com. Select the Vocabulary.com Top 1000 and click on "Learn this list" which offers objective type practice questions. It's a good habit to practice these words after signing in as they keep a track of your learning curve and offer you the practice questions accordingly.Join the New GRE group on Facebook. It's the most active GRE group on Facebook right now. It will help you in two ways:Members post random GRE questions on this group, which will give you a rough idea of how the questions are going to be while you are still in the Vocabulary building phase.Secondly, it's a good source to prepare for quantitative section. As long as you are able to solve the math problems being posted over there, you can care-freely concentrate on your verbal preparation. You'll get access to some really USEFUL links.The next source of vocabulary that I referred to was 1500 Words from http://Majortests.com , shuffle between this and http://Vocabulary.com.The last but the "first" source is again, the word list at the end of "Word Power Made Easy". Meanwhile, don't forget to read the newspaper EXTENSIVELY, especially the Editorials.Now you are at a stage where you have a "faint" vocabulary word bank of 1500+ words, an extensive reading experience of a daily newspaper, a high-speed read novel and a fair idea of the level of verbal and quantitative GRE questions through Facebook group. Enough with the "Vocabulary Only" days, now it's time for some real action !!Fourth WeekTime to pick up the GRE preparations books: Now that you have enough vocabulary and reading habit in your armory, its time to use this raw material and shape it to fit the GRE examination pattern. Start with Official GRE by ETS. It will give you a clear idea of the pattern of the exam, but that's all its useful for. Don't expect it to be sufficient for practice problems. This week, just do (work out) this book, read news paper and nothing else. Also, keep a check on your performance while attempting sample problems in this book and identify your weakness: Is it RC or multiple blanks/synonyms3. Third month: Reach the top speed, end the preparation like a sprint racerFirst Two WeeksPick up Manhattan 5 lb, practice ALL the verbal exercises, don't leave a single question unanswered. Frankly speaking, once you are in momentum, these questions are not time consuming, either you know the answer, which is great, or you don't, which you can just look up in the answer key quickly. I stumbled upon the maths section of 5 lb, I liked it, it had all those problems which, though simple, are little tricky and trap you with wrong answer. I practiced quant from this book which prepared me to be ready with these kind of tricky questions. Then you can go through Kaplan GRE practice book, its a small e-book, wouldn't take much time but having finished two books will give you immense confidence and speed in problem solving. Another "thin" book that I quickly skimmed through (I'm telling you, once you are in momentum, these books will pass through in a fly) 1014 Practive Questions for the new GRE-The Princeton Review. You can also pick up books 7 and 8 from Manhattan GRE 1-8 series for RC and Sentence completion respectively.Last Two WeeksIts time to pick up what we have been letting off till now: AWA and Exam Practice Tests. For AWA, I'd read samples from Manhattan AWA. I really like the way they break down the technique to answer the AWA section, which makes it really easy to structure your thought. For more random RC practice with a timer, just visit Codecoax.com and it will pop up an RC for you. Lastly, practice as much full length exams as you can with TIMER. Practice atleast 5. For full length tests, here are some links that you can visit:20 online tests800Score's Free Full Length Revised GRE TestMyGRETutor's 4 free Full Length TestsKaplan's Free Practice Test Options for the GREPrinceton Review: Free GRE Full length testIts easy ! Its doable !! Just do it !!!Originally answered here: How to score 330+ in GRE in 3 months ?







Quant - 170 Verbal- 164 AWA- 4.5/6I recently gave my GRE on 28th September 2017. Although I started my preparation 3 months prior to the examination I could not continue due to the fact that I am also preparing for other competitive exams. Also I was put down by Chicken pox and Typhoid for a month. Effectively I had little more than a month to prepare for the test. So I was quite surprised with the result that I got as you can see above. Here is how I prepared for my GRE test.Study Material -Magoosh GRE prep account (most important)Magoosh Vocabulary builder (words flashcard app)Manhattan prep GRE 5 lb. book of gre practice problemsManhattan GRE Prep Reading comprehension and EssayOfficial Guide for GRE by ETS (all three books)Various news sites such as The New Yorker , The Economist etc. ( as prescribed on Magoosh GRE blog).Study Plan -I started my preparation at the start of the month of July . As I told earlier I am also studying for other competitive exams so I could’nt devote much time to GRE. I studied for maximum 3 hours each day. I also did’nt study according to any plan. Some days it was only vocab building by flashcards and reading articles. Some days it was practicing problems Some days divided between both. Also I watched Magoosh GRE video lessons and I can say they were very useful.This is a tip for students from engineering background preparing for GRE. Don’t ignore the quantitative section even if it seems easy to you. Practice it as you would the verbal section.After recovering from my maladies I had approx 5 weeks to prepare for GRE. So I decided to tidy up my routine soI increased my GRE study time to 5–6 hours per dayIn a day I would first go through my magoosh flashcards and try to learn atleast 30 new words per day and also revise a few old words. Also I made a point to read and understand atleast 2 news articles per day .Then I would practice quantitative for approx 1 hour . I generally used timed custom practice test in Magoosh GRE account.For next 2 hours I would go through practicing the verbal section and writing essays.I learnt how to read the paragraphs swiftly and in detail. Again Magoosh video lessons were very important in this regard.Unfortunately I was not able to give any full practice test due to my surroundings but I would recommend everyone to give atleast one of them.My main focus was on improving my vocab by learning new words , their meaning and context of their uses as it appeared to me to be very useful for Sentence equivalence and Text completion questions. Again and I cannot stress this enough watching Magoosh video lessons was very important.I practiced and practiced as much as my schedule allowed me to.On the day of the examinationReach the centre atleast 1 hour prior to the commencement of test as there are plenty of verification to be done before the examination. Also carry a water bottle with you. GRE is very attentively conducted examination and staff of testing centres are very vigilant. If you have any problem feel free to ask for their help.GRE is a very easy exam as you can see in my case , with a directed and concentrated approach you can score very well ( 330+) within a relatively short amount of prep time.Be well , Be prepared and best of luck.







I’ve been tutoring the GRE for a number of years. The below is inspired by the many sessions I’ve had with students, many of whom have gone on to do very well on the GRE. A lot of it is also specific to the revised GRE, which made its debut in August 2011.  1. Use official material When preparing for the GRE, no questions prepare you better than the ones written by ETS, which is responsible for writing the questions you will see test day. As much as possible, stick to the questions in the Official Guide to the GRE so you can wrap your mind around how the test writers want you to reason.  You may not think that it makes that much of a difference, but many publishers out there have questions that require you to make certain leaps of logic—or employ questionable logic—that you will never have to do on the actual test. Then there is the fact that many questions simply aren’t as difficult or nuanced as the questions you’ll see test day. This is a problem many students encounter when using Kaplan—you are essentially taking a dumbed down version of the GRE, with often poorly constructed questions to boot.  2. Take practice tests There is no better way to prepare for test day than actually taking a mock test. You will train yourself to sit for three plus hours staring at a screen, as you are pummeled by an onslaught of GRE problems.  If possible, use only the official tests, found in the Official Guide to the New GRE. There are four such tests—two that comes with the book, and two that are computer-based and come with the CD that is part of the book. Stagger these out  over the four weeks you are prepping, so that there are no fewer than five days between tests and no more than ten days. If you are studying longer, you might also want to consider Manhattan GRE tests (see below).  Finally, practice tests will allow you to better assess your strengths and weaknesses, and help inform your study sessions in between tests.  3. Focus on weaknesses Make sure not to get carried away developing those areas in which you already excel. For instance, if you are generally strong at math problem solving questions, but if you dislike Data Interpretation (that’s the section with all the graphs), then the last thing you want to do is avoid that section. Instead make it a priority to become confident and effective at all questions relating to Data Interpretation.   4. Use the best material While official material is clearly the best prep out there, it doesn’t necessarily provide the most effective strategies. You may want to take a look at Princeton Review for helpful big picture strategies. As for specific strategies for almost every aspect of the GRE—from permutations to convoluted paragraph arguments—the Manhattan GRE books (MGRE) are the best. MGRE also has six practice tests that mimic the actual test very well (though this more so with math than with verbal). For more practice on the online format, Magoosh also offers questions that are similar to--and often more difficult--than those found on the actual test. (I should probably mention that I work for Magoosh :))  Of course there is a lot of material out there that should be avoided, especially in terms of practice content. Here is a helpful breakdown: 2013 GRE Book Reviews







I did my prep in a week. So two months is a solid amount of time.First familiarize yourself with the test pattern. The Magoosh prep videos are really good for it. Know what the sections are, approximately how much time to spend on each question and stick to it. You'll get two free practice test from ETS itself (using the Powerprep software). Go through the untimed section once and also give one of the tests (timed). So you'll have a basic idea of how your test will be. The GRE is a bit longer in duration than many other exams ( about 4 hrs). You should be able to keep a cool head in these 4 hours. Apart from the ETS practice tests you can find 3 other standardized tests (free) i.e Manhattan, Kaplan and Princeton GRE Practice Test. Or you can always buy the test package from one of the reputed institutes, but do use the three aforementioned tests. If you buy the Official GRE ETS guide, you'll get two more tests (paper-based), so I strongly recommend you get it.You will have 6 sections on the test. First you will face the AWA (Analytical) Section. Out of the 5 sections left, only 4 of them will be used for calculating your score for the test. The other one is an experimental section. They say that ETS has implemented this in order to gauge the general performance of the test takers and also for analysis for their future test papers. We will not know which is the experimental section so please do not waste any sort of time trying to figure out which one is the experimental section.We do know that after the AWA section, you will have the Quantitative and Verbal sections in a random order. The scores calculated will be taken from 2 Verbal sections and 2 Quantitative Sections. So it is important that you perform well in all the sections. You will have an optional 10-minutes break after the first three sections.So now you've given a practice test and you can roughly identify the area you are weak at. Lets tackle the Verbal section first.(As this is a nightmare to most of us)The key to scoring a 160+ in this section is a really strong vocabulary. Yes there are numerous word lists available, but don't start with them first. The Magoosh GRE Flashcards app is an absolutely brilliant foundation builder. Download the app and keep going through the words. Do it everyday or whenever you get 15mins of free time. You can also find it online in case you don't have a smartphone. It covers about 1000 words that will give you enough ammo for test. But this will probably not cover all the words that will appear in your GRE. You can then proceed with the word lists. Also two things that helped me here were 'Word Power Made Easy' and the 'Magoosh Vocab Wednesday Videos' (I strongly recommend you use the videos as much as possible). WPME equips you with a sound understanding of etymology and makes you learn new words with ease. Although it requires some commitment and patience, it is recommended only if you have too much time on your hands !Possessing a large vocab is like having a machine gun with tons of ammo. But its of no use if you do not know how to fire the gun ! You need to have the ability to understand the question clearly. You need to keep your train of thought connected as you read thorough the question and recognize what the question is asking for (this for all types RC, Sentence Completion). Also in the Reading Comprehension you might come across huge ones with relatively tough questions. The only way to fire the gun properly now is by practice. Practice practice and practice. The Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problems, Princeton GRE material, Kaplan GRE material, Manhattan GRE material are all really helpful for the amount of questions they have all together. Inbox me if you need any sort of material. I can share it over Google Drive. Don't be disheartened if your answers are mostly incorrect. Read the explanations given for the answers and understand how to approach the question. I was terrible at the beginning, but trust me the more you practice, the better you will become. You have to keep the factor of time in mind too. Remember all the questions in the GRE have the same value. If you are not able to answer the question mark it and move on to the next one. Just be sure to get back to it later. If you don't have the time for it, might as well guess the answer blindly ! You have a decent amount of time so you should be able to cover a lot of material.Next the Quantitative section. This is relatively the easier section and a score of 170 is pretty much possible. I recommend to buy the 'ETS Official Guide to the GRE® revised General Test, Second Edition'. Read through the Quantitative Prep Section throughly. It covers all the topics and concepts that you need to know for the GRE. The official guide also comes with two additional practice tests apart from the Powerprep software, that are really good. ETS prepares the GRE examination that you will be appearing for, so there is no better material (for both verbal and quant) that will give you an idea of how the questions will be. Once you've read the concepts go back to the mantra of practicing. Practice practice and practice. Remember the essence of these question will be simple. But the question will not look so. It will be tricky and manipulative (pretty much like some of our "friends"). You should be able to clearly understand what the question is asking for and work on it accordingly. Practicing tons and loads of questions will help here. Again the Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problems, Princeton GRE material, Kaplan GRE material, Manhattan GRE material are all helpful for the amount of questions they possess. Do inbox me if you need any material. Keep practicing meticulously. Don't give up if you aren't able to get the correct answers. Read through the explanation and understand how to approach the question. You can easily achieve a score of 165+. Go back to the areas you find tough, read through the concepts and practice more questions. For the multiple answers be sure to look at all the options. Few of the Data Interpretation questions will be straightforward and the others will be simple but lengthy. The ETS Material will give you a good idea of the various graphs and plots that may appear on your test day. Also get a good grip over the 'Quartiles' concept which is there in the ETS material. Grasping the concepts should not take much time but you have to apply them correctly in the examination. Commit and practice till you reach a point where no matter what the question is in front of you, you should be able to attempt it. Carefully see what the question is asking for and answer accordingly. Practice is the key for a high score in the Quant section too ! (If you are an Indian student you will have less difficulty in understanding the quant concepts as most of the topics will be covered in high school math. But without practice, the questions can even trick the highly intelligent students) Next, the AWA Section. This is actually the first section that you will face in the GRE. Now, I am not really one to give you advice for this section as I did pretty bad here. Don't get me wrong. I love absolutely writing (though I am not really good with spellings). Anything from flash fiction to poetry. But I like to do it at my own pace. The GRE however gives you only 30 mins for each essay hence I wasn't at much ease. Also I did not practice for this section at all. (No wonder I didn't score well). You'll face two essays; the 'Issue Task' and the 'Argument Task'. The "Issue Task" presents an opinion on an issue of general interest followed by specific instructions on how to respond to that issue. You have to evaluate the issue, consider its complexities and develop an argument with reasons and examples to support your views. The "Argument Task" requires you to evaluate a given argument according to specific instructions. You will need to consider the logical soundness of the argument rather than agree or disagree with the position it presents.I do know that reading through numerous essay (especially the ones that scored a 6 or 5) will give you the approach strategy. The topic pool can be found on the ETS website so do give them a read. You have loads of time, so you should be able to have a planned out method to tackle this section. Also look at the 'SparkNotes GRE section" online to find good tips for approaching this section. I've read on various blogs that for the engineering programs the schools do not give much importance to the AWA score. But if you are looking to pursue a grad program in literature or journalism, you'll need a real good AWA score.The Practice Tests.You should have atleast 5 Practice tests (the free ones I mentioned before) in hand and space them out according to your convenience and how comfortable you are with the topics. If you buy the Official ETS guide you will have two additional tests (paper-based) so I would definitely suggest you buy the guide. There is no fixed timetable for giving the tests. You give it as per your comfort level. The score you get on the ETS Practice test is quite a good approximation of what you will get on the test day so give one of the ETS Practice test a few days before your GRE. Now I had a week's time so I gave one test a day. I was able to gauge my performance after each test and scope out what I needed to work on. Do look into the explanations of the answers. Remember you should try and avoid making the same mistake twice. Keep track of your mistakes by writing them down and glance at them later before you give another test.Finally, the Test Day Section. Yes as silly as it sounds, the test day matters the most. Your nerves on the test day can either boost your performance or wreck your examination. You've done all the practice you can and now its your time to perform . Do get a good amount of sleep the night before. Keep all the required IDs with you. Reach the test center earlier than your reporting time. Carry along a small snack and a bottle of water. Keep your cool throughout the examination. If you are stuck and unable to proceed, take a deep breath and relax. It helps ! You have done loads of practice you will be able to crack that silly question but this time with a calmer state of mind. It is very easy to lose patience if you feel are't doing well but keep it together for these 4 hours and you should be able to achieve an well rounded score. Don't give up if one of your sections didn't go well you have the other sections to make up for it. But if you've practiced enough you will never have to be in that position ! Also don't worry about which section is the experimental section. As far as you are concerned, you have to do well in all the sections. Do take the 10 mins break after 3 sections to come back with a refreshed mind.If you don't get a good score or atleast what you aimed, remember GRE is not the end ! I could not get the score I aimed for and initally I was disappointed. Soon I realized that its really of no use worrying about it. What you've got is what you've got. If needed you can appear for the GRE again within 21 days, though I wouldn't recommend it (unless you got a really bad score and are willing to pay the fee for writing the examination again). I prepared exactly how I have described in the above paragraphs. I score 328 and 331 in my last two mock tests. So I was pretty confident going into the examination. But the test day nerves got to me. I was fumbling with words in the AWA section. Quantitative section I did well, but I was aiming for a perfect 170 and fell short by 3 marks. During one of the Verbal sections I had the sudden urge to pee. I had about 8 questions left with 10 minutes on the clock. Though I begged the invigilators, I was not allowed to go to the restroom till the 10 mins break. And that pretty much broke my momentum. So I came back to the rest of the sections with a cool mind, a real desire for revenge (too much drama, I know !) and breezed though them with much more ease. Hopefully the nerves won't get to you ! Best of luck in cracking the GRE ! I'll be glad to help if you need more guidance. Let us know how your exam goes. Cheers !Sorry for the long post ! Here's a Potato :(Image source : Tumblr)







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is used by schools in most English speaking countries for admission into the Graduate program. It assesses the verbal, quantitative and writing skills of the student.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution.  So here are some tips to help you.1.  Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most.  Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2.  Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser.  Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3.  Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous.  When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4.  Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay. 5.  Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.Source: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE







WHAT IS GRE?The Graduate Record Examination, or GRE, is an important step in the graduate school or business school application process. The GRE is a multiple-choice, computer-based, standardized exam that is often required for admission to graduate programs and graduate business programs (MBA) globally.The GRE is developed and administered by testmaker ETS to provide graduate and business schools with common measures for comparing applicants’ qualifications and preparedness for graduate-level academic work. Graduate school and business school admissions committees look at your GRE score, along with your academic record and supporting materials, to assess your readiness for the rigors of graduate academic study.Your aspirations for higher studies abroad and achieving your goals is really appreciable. You did the right thing by writing GRE exam. For pursuing MS abroad especially USA, you need to appear for GRE which you have done. However, there is no need to worry. We will guide you as to what you need to do next inorder to pursue your MS degree course abroad.Admission in the universities abroad are mainly done on the basis of scores of two exams- GRE and TOEFL. SO you need to write the TOEFL exam which comprises questions from English. Having a good score in GRE and TOEFL will definitely help you in getting admission in the top universities of the world. After getting the scores of GRE and TOEFL, you need to choose 4-5 universities in each country where you want to pursue your MS course and apply in them online and it should be as per your GRE and TOEFL scores. Merely going for the best university with less scores will definitely result in a waste of time. You need to apply with a strong statement of purpose which will depict your interest in pursuing the course in the concerned university. This is an important aspect of application as most of the universities check this statement of purpose seriously.After getting confirmation of your selection,you need to select one university where you want to join. Then you need to apply for student VISA for pursuing your MS degree course. You need to approach the Visa Interview with all the necessary documents like call letters,score sheets, academic certificates,etc.







Short answer: Want to pursue your Master’s abroad or specifically in the US? The GRE exam will help you do this. GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination.Long answer: It is a standardized test that is generally required by universities in the US and certain other universities across the globe. What is a standardized test, you ask? A standardized test is any test which requires all test-takers to a) answer the same questions or questions from a common bank of questions in the same manner and b) that is scored or evaluated in the same manner. This ensures that all test-takers, objectively, have an equal shot at success and also allows for the comparison of the relative performance of an individual.Now let’s cover the rest of the basics. The GRE exam can be divided broadly into two categories:The Quantitative Reasoning SectionThe Verbal Reasoning Section - Both assessed on a scale of 130-170.There is a third, Analytical Writing Section that (as the name suggests) aims to measure your ability to construct and articulate complex ideas and arguments and support them. This section is of particular importance to PhD aspirants.The test can be taken throughout the year AND the scores you receive are valid for FIVE years after you take the exam. This is good news for those who aren’t sure when they want to start studying or those whose original plans get derailed.If and when you decide to take the GRE exam, you’re going to want to score as high as you can, right? The good news is, it’s not as hard as you might think.Good luck to you!







What is GRE?The Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) is a 3 and half hours standardized test that is an admissions requirement for most graduate schools in the United States. The GRE is owned and administered by Educational Testing Service (ETS). The test was established in 1936 by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.What is the Skills Tested in GRE?Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)Quantitative ReasoningVerbal ReasoningGRE Scoring?GRE is evaluated out of a score of 340. That’s, 170 for Quantitative Reasoning and 170 for Verbal Reasoning. The minimum score that one can get is 260 out of 340. AWA is evaluated out of a scale of 0 to 6 with increment of 0.5 (That means that a student for example can get 4.5 out of a scale of 6).NOTE: GRE SCORES ARE VALID FOR 5 YEARS.WHO ACCEPTS GRE?Business schools worldwide accept GRE scores for their MBA, specialized master's and other doctoral business programs, including many top-ranked programs.Law schools, including top-ranked schools, are now accepting GREList of important steps after the GRE exam:1. Appear for TOEFL or IELTS:TOEFL / IELTS is an important criterion for withholding your admission process. Basically, TOEFL OR IELTS are tests of your English skills. Their role comes into play at the time of Visa and during your Teaching Assistant-ship (TA). But it is always better that you are done with all the exams before applying to the universities.Ideal Time: September-October2. Decide Course and University:This is probably the most important and the most hectic time you will go through. You should choose a course purely based on your interest. Usually, students opt for a course based on their undergrad stream, although you can apply to any other different course. The only important part is that you should be able to justify to yourself why you want a course different from your undergrad stream, perhaps in your SOP.Work should begin on deiding a course and a university around September third week, earlier the better.The next step after GRE is to arrange documents. This is, as usual, tedious and boring. You have to run here and there, from the office on the first floor to the HOD on the 4th floor, each will keep dumping the work on the other. It isn’t so easy to obtain transcripts, LORs, attested mark sheets and Bank Statements. As said before, earlier you engage in this work lesser will be the problems.Below is a brief explanation on how and when you should arrange these documents:3. Letters of Recommendation:As soon as the final year begins (7th semester), start talking to the respective professors who will give you a recommendation. Honestly, it isn’t that simple to get a recommendation unless you have an excellent rapport with the teacher. It is a long process as you have to make a lot of rough drafts and eventually ready the final document.It is better that work should begin on this the very first day and the final draft should be ready by October last week to avoid last minute hassles.NOTE: There is no need to make a hard-copy for the LOR as all the universities accept it online unless the specific university asks for one.4. Transcripts:A transcript is an official document which comprises all your marks in detail (Semester-wise, subject-wise breakups, term work & viva marks) in a single sheet and is issued by your college. You have to make frequent visits to your college office for getting the sample transcript, entering the complete details of all the subjects starting from semester 1 till the current semester, approving it, getting it stamped and then sealing it.Number of copies required are around 15.5. Bank StatementFrankly speaking, arranging this document isn’t very difficult. Firstly, you need to know how much are you willing to, or in other words, how much can you spend for the next two years in USA (roughly around USD 55,000). Talk to your bank manager and get attested copies of the bank statement which is a proof of your financial solvency.So, once your finances are in place and you've had multiple meetings with your bank manager and decided the amount with or without loan, final papers should be ready by November first week but it is advisable that you start approaching the bank early in October.Number of copies required are generally 15.6. AffidavitAn affidavit is similar to the bank statement, just that it is an official document issued by the Government and it states who will be financing your education. You can make an affidavit by simply going to the court and telling the lawyer the exact details to fill in.Preparing this document doesn't take more than a day once you know who is ready to sponsor you and the exact amount. Tentative time is around November first week.Number of copies required are generally 15.Important: Make sure that the bank statement and affidavit amounts are the same.7. Statement Of PurposeThe heart of your application process. This is the only document which is supposedly compulsory. Start making your SOP around October first week as you have to make a lot of rough drafts for a week or 10 days. Get a few opinions from your seniors (to see whether you have written all the data properly) and an English expert (for the language and the grammar).Suggestion: Although you may have secured a good GRE score, try to keep the language simple and make sure you focus more on the content rather than flaunting your knowledge of GRE words.Note: Hard-copies aren’t required by the universities. They have around 500 Kb size to upload the soft-copy, which is quite enough.8. ResumeIt is a document highlighting your achievements. It usually consists of your academic achievements, GRE and TOEFL scores, Co-curricular and extracurricular activities, explanation of your academic projects and personal details.A good time to engage in making a Resume would be mid October.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for IELTS And GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.Vijay,Alumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT







GRE stands for "Graduate Record Examination". It's a standardized test that is required for admission at most graduate schools in the US. It is divided in three parts: Verbal, Quantitative and Analytical writing. The verbal section tests reading comprehension and vocabulary. Questions are of the type "what two sentences have the same meaning ?" or "fill in the blank with the correct word to complete the sentence". Scores for this section range from 130 to 170. Normally this test is computer-based and the choice of questions and their order will change based on the performance of the participant, thus no two persons will pass the same exact test. The tricky part of this test is that the vocabulary is very formal, so participants will often study long list of words and their definition to prepare for the test. The Quantitative section is mostly basic high school math, such as statistics, mental calculations, geometry and reasoning. Again, this test is scored from 130 to 170 points and is computer based. The tricky part of this test is that most science  majors haven't done math at this very elementary level in a long time, so they don't remember the small tricks to solve these problems (time is a big constraint here). The tricky part for non-science majors is that they haven't done math in a long time so they need to relearn some of the material. The Analytical writing part is made of two essays that the participants has to write in 30 minutes each, based on a question or arguments given in the exam. The texts are then scored from 1 to 6 by two judges. The tricky part of this section is that you can't prepare in advance for the essay questions, so you have very limited time to put together a good series of arguments. You also cannot use any dictionary or other resources to check your spelling, grammar, or just facts that you want to include in your essays. However, you are still evaluated on proper spelling, proper grammar and syntax, etc. The GREs are given by a company called ETS (Educational Testing Services), so depending where you live, you will have to go to one of their center and take the test, usually on one of their computer, but some times on paper if you live in a remote area. Taking the test cost $195 US or more, depending on the location and the different promotional offers. Your test results can then be sent directly to the universities you want to apply to. There are also "subject GREs" for specific topics, like physics, biology or English literature. Some departments in the US will require one of those subject tests for admission in addition of the general GRE (described above), thus you need to also take this specific test. This is a different process, different registration dates, tests are paper based instead of computer based, etc. It's also an additional cost. A typical timeline for the GRE will be:Summer : Study for the GRELate summer, early Fall : Take the GRE exam and send your results to universitiesLate Fall and beginning of Winter: application deadline for most graduate programsSpring: Receive admission lettersFall: First semester of graduate school. If you want the possibility to retake the GRE (because you had a bad score the first time), then plan on studying during the Winter, passing the test a first time in the Spring, re-studying in the summer, re-taking the test in the Fall.







GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination conducted by ETS.This exam is basically for graduate studies in few countries especially US.This exam consists of two sections each of QUANTITATIVE SECTION, VERBAL SECTION, an ANALYTICAL WRITING, EXPERIMENTAL SECTION (Compulsory) and a RESEARCH SECTION (Optional).No negative marks.About the exam :                GRE has a unique feature i.e., it is SECTIONAL WISE ADAPTIVE.It means that if your first section of Quant went very well then the next section of Quant will be very difficult(Difficulty of the first section will be the same for everyone). Same is the case in the Verbal section.But the points will be given keeping this in mind. For EX: in QuantCase 1: A person gets 17 in the first section, the second section goes harder    and let's assume that he gets 8 in the next section. He gets a total of 25 right.(Does not mean he gets 130+25=155/170).Case 2: A person scores 8 in the first section, the second section becomes easier and let's assume he gets 17 right in the next section. He also gets a total of 25 right.Although both the above students have scored 25 right out of 40 in Quant.This does not mean both of them scores the same points out of 170, indeed the student in Case 1 who scored more in the first section gets more points.1. Quantitative Section :    There are two sections of this, which basically contains of simple high     school math. Number of questions in each section is 20 and the time limit is 35 min. The score ranges from a minimum of 130 to a maximum of 170 with 1 point increment.2. Verbal Section :    There are again two sections in which there are 20 questions each and time limit of 30 min.The score again ranges from 130 - 170 with one point increment.3. Experimental section :    This is another wonderful feature of GRE wherein you get an additional section of either Quant or Verbal. This section is not evaluated.The twist here is we donot know which section comes first(after Analytical AWA).It might be Quant/Verbal/Experimental. So giving care to each and every section is very important.4. Analytical Writing(AWA) :     This again contains two questions each of 30 min. One is an ARGUMENT writing and another is ISSUE writing.PS: This above data is as of 2015 and might change in the future.







The GRE (administered by ETS -- ETS Home) is the general test required for entry into most US grad schools. It's pretty much the SAT for grad school. If you're applying to any masters or PhD programs in the US, then you'll most likely need to take this test. The test consists of 3 different subjects: math, verbal, and an essay portion. You'll have 2 math sections (each 20 questions and 35 minutes), 2 verbal sections (each 20 questions and 30 minutes), 2 essays (each 30 minutes), and one experimental section. The experimental section can be either math or verbal, and ETS uses this portion of the exam for research. How you do on this section does not affect your score. You can read more about the basics of the exam here: About the GRE revised General Test and here: Introduction to the GRE.







To thoseWho don’t have much time to prepare, such as those having a job (my case) or too much of college work.Preparing on their own, without any coaching. Without any hard books.Who are lazy. (Less euphemistically)Here’s my brief:(It’s quite a long read - TL; DR at the end)I was not able to do what they do, owing to the lack of time. These things should not let you down--“No time for Mock tests”: I did not take any (of the 3) mock tests fully - I only used to attempt both the Quant sections, review the mistakes, and ultimately end up preparing for Quant only till the day ended. I’d attempted Verbal only once (that too while triple-clicking and peeping at the meaning for each of the words that were unknown to me :P ) and gotten only 20 of 40 correct. This was before I’d started preparations, so I didn’t mind it much.LAST MINUTE Preparations: In spite of everyone telling me against it, I couldn’t leave the house in the morning without scrolling through my (mostly unprepared) word list, and the salient Quant mistakes notes.“Enough Sleep before the Day”: Didn’t have! :( Feeling underprepared, just twisting on the bed for hours without sleep!What I can make out nowAll that last minute anxiety, laziness towards Verbal, the last sleepless night, were all immaterial. For the most important thing is to be Calm & Concentrated during the exam. That’s all! :) Your score is already decided; a few months’ preparation would be puny in front of the all the Math/English that you’ve acquired during the past 20-25 years of your life.The post by Ananth Balasubramanian is the truest. Sincere thanks to him. :)[Here’s the link: GRE brief by Ananth Balasubramanian | Facebook]Suggested preparation material (i.e. the ones that I referred to)Manhattan 5 lb. (the hot favourite) for Quant - being a lover of Maths, I solved all of the problems and tests in this.ETS Official Guide - devour it completely! Burp!ETS Quant Practice and ETS Verbal Practice books - the best ones to understand the type & range of questions asked and to develop your own strategies.Magoosh Vocabulary Builder app - for the times when I used to take a break or while commuting or that eyes-wide-open-in-the-phone-light time before sleep.Quant tipsPractice all types of questions from all topics. Don’t even ignore simple Algebra questions like “1+3=?”, for there must be a trick involved. Even once would do, if you grasp things quickly.Then review the answers and keep jotting down the mistakes you commit. These should be helpful at the LAST MINUTE preparations. (For example, don’t ignore fractions and negative values in x2; double check DI questions; that new formula of ‘sample standard deviation’ etc.) If you have time, do review the answers to the correct ones too - there can be some wisdom provided there too, e.g. in Manhattan and ETS books.Verbal tipsPractise RC as much as you can. It’s not important that you finish the whole book of RC99. I did practise only about 15-20 essays from the books that I’ve mentioned. The important thing is to learn how to critically think about the questions and the choices. Every now and then, you’d have to reason with the choices like: “Hey! The passage does say that Apples are Bad. But it doesn’t state ‘specifically’ that they’re bad in taste. So eliminate.” Reasoning gets even more stringent than this. Learn to do it, and RC is your toy.Also, speed reading in RC helps a lot. Verbal sections might be found to be time-taking by you.SE and TC - Go with your instinct. Eliminate. Practice didn’t help me much I guess. But to be confident in the exam, do practise. :)AWA tipsI don’t think I’m the right person to speak about it. I only read a few samples from the ETS OG, on the day before D-day. I like writing, and so I could write quite much in the exam as well.All this I did within 10 days effectively. Lack of sleep didn’t bother me on the test day. (Might bother others, do sleep!)However, during preparations, I believe sleep matters - for whatever you learn needs the warmth of the pillow to be happy to stay in your brain... :)As much important are everyday chores and play - I used to play at least two games of Carrom everyday during my preparation. But DON’T do anything that brings that guilt in you of having wasted time.On Test DayHad slept only for 4 hours the night before, awoke at 6:30 AM, had only one banana for breakfast, and reached the venue at 7:30 AM. To my surprise, security check had already begun! :O Plus, to add to the torment, the ‘Prometric Intro video’ was playing on the TV there in loop! Grrr!AWA topics were good, had ample thoughts to write. Time is also enough for you to write 400-500 words.Happy to see the Quant section first! :D Got all the answers. However, it was trickier and lengthier than the second Quant section - so I knew that it was experimental.And most of the verbal passages I got were related to Science - Astronomy, Chemistry, Botany etc. Lucky, for I love to read about those. :)A Little Time Hack: Don’t press the Continue button when the section finishes. Take deep breaths. Prepare your mind to shift from Q to V or V to Q. Then press Continue and enjoy an official break of 60 more seconds ... :P (Had read this somewhere, so implemented.)Break time: Snickers. No wonder. (I think ETS should write this in the GRE conventions’ PDF now)All went smooth. And the score screen. My eyes went to the Quantitative section first: 170. Emotionless. Fine. Expected. Then they turned to Verbal section: 159. I added it to my Quant score and... “WTF! It’s becoming 329! Perhaps my brain is too tired to do simple addition now”, I’d said to myself. I did the Math again. And then again on the yellow rough sheet - that’s when it settled in!I smiled, filled in the Universities, and went straight to my friends waiting for a party. :)TL; DRKNOW the question types; PRACTISE until you start getting the answers correct; CHILL often: most importantly, during the exam.All the Best! :)[If anyone has any further queries, I'd be happy to help. :) ]——————————————————————————————————————————Update | May 22, 2016Admitted in Texas A&M University, College Station, to the M.Eng. in Construction Engineering & Management program!Happy as Hell!! :D——————————————————————————————————————————Update | June 30, 2017Working for one of the largest construction companies in the US!Happier!! :D :D







Dear GRE Aspirant!Two key phrases caught my attention in your question: “easiest ways” and “above 320”. Let me begin with the 2nd phrase since it is the more important among the two.An above 320 score is the popular benchmark for the success of your application – although there are many more factors to it. Going by the consensus, here is how a Good and a Great GRE score may look like.Good ScoreGreat ScoreAdditionally, why don’t we draw some inference from the statistics for admission to some top-notch colleges in the U.S.:The statistics shown above will convince you of the importance of securing section-wise efficient scores in the GRE. A 165 in Quant, coupled with a 155 in Verbal makes 320, but need not serve the best outcome with respect to your target university. Coming to the other phrase (i.e., easiest ways), you must understand that easy comes from comfort – and that comfort comes from two things: Ability & Alacrity. The better you are at something, the easier it feels. Again, the more prepared you are for something – the easier it becomes. All this philosophy is to help you understand the importance of Planning & Preparation. These two Ps make GRE easier to tame. We will come to this soon!Tame your VerbalLet’s begin with a few things to focus on for your Verbal section:Without discounting the importance of the 3500 high frequency words for GRE, you must also refer Barron’s 333. These are apparently the more frequent ones to occur.The Verbal section of the GRE is not about memory, word power or vocabulary. It is more about analogy, context, and comprehension. Hence, invest in learning the context for each word.Select a handful of words every week – and read at least 5 blogs/articles in context to each such word. This reinforces enough context around the word – making it almost unforgettable.The old strategies of relying on mnemonics, visual/audio, root words, theme based words, synonyms for context, etc. are still extremely effective and relevant. Utilize technology where you can, and rely on building your Verbal foundations using visual & associative methods of learning. Apps like WordBot, Flashcards, are extremely effective in this regard.Develop the habit of speed reading. Only 20% of a sentence is enough for context. This will help you achieve great speed and accuracy (since you wouldn’t be affected by random words in the sentence).Conquer QuantNow, a few hacks for the Quant section:Master Mental Math. A large subset of questions you encounter would be intense with lots of smaller problems leading to the final solution. Mastering Mental Math techniques like Vedic Math etc. will take away the weeds from the path.Practice and practice hard, with an intent to solve any question you encounter within 90 seconds. Some solutions could be shorter, say 25 seconds.Value your time, but do not rush. Read between the options available and often you will see through the traps GRE sets for all.Learn the art of IGMO, i.e., Intelligent Guessing and Moving On. GRE does not penalize a wrong answer. If the questions seem a bit wavering for you, resort to IGMO.Pick concepts and solve questions based on them. This will enable you to approach each question with an intent to build its back/spine. Once you strengthen the spine, you can take it all!Always try to build a Flow or Diagram for questions. Each question just lays out the facts in front of you. What can be confused by words, can be disseminated by figures!Learn to use the Online Calculator. It is an extremely underrated gift/lenience GRE offers. Most people end up solving square roots on paper. Act smarter and use a calculator. All of this is best done when you have a Plan and Preparation in place.How does Planning help?Peter Drucker said: “You can't manage what you can't measure”. A plan will help you stay focused and on the sprint. No plan is fool-proof, but a study plan will ensure you are aware of your progress. It will help you mobilize more resources when needed, and prioritize better.Take a look at the below figure to understand the same.Note that the above data corresponds to aspirants who had invested and dedicated themselves to a Tight Study plan and a Learning Tracker, in their quest for a 320+ score in GRE.Sample Study Plan Structure based on time period:1 month study plan structureAllocate at least 4 hours a day to prepare for GRE, diligently – without fail.Focus on the toughest problems and concepts.Compare your progress with peers and steer your preparation plan daily based on the same.Take as many timed and test-environment simulated tests as may be possible.Be clear of where you need help and reach to the Personal Coach without any remorse.3 months study plan structureEnforce Time Management strategies like 2 minute rules for every question.Work up stamina for 4 hour tests, by taking regular proctored and simulated tests.Focus a lot on deciphering and finding the way through long RCs and passages.Identify weak areas/concepts, and scheduling help sessions for the same.Build a diligent Word consumption strategy (e.g. WordBot, Flashcards, etc.).Stay well-versed with as many axioms and formulae pertaining to Geometry as possible.6 months study plan structureA more relaxed approach to building core concepts.Heavy focus on building reading habit.Periodicals and editorial sections of top/acclaimed journals are a must. Additionally, classic novels and books are welcome.A daily focus on assimilating 10-20 new words from the high frequency list of words.Weekly proctored tests to analyze weak areas.Building good arithmetic and quick math skills.Strong focus on practising Data Interpretation and Sentence Equivalence questions, given the time in hand to master the same.It is consistently quipped that 90 days should be a good period to enable your GRE prep. Having said that, you could just get double sure with a 180 day study plan!Nothing gets easier than following a time tested study plan, especially when someone else out there dedicates all their hours to build your excellence.Do not let too much information confuse your choices. Think logically, and you will see that sense prevails by following a stringent study plan.All the best!







GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination. It is held by Educational Testing Service (ETS) and the exam aims to measure verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, analytical writing skills. The GRE format changed in 2011 and is the maximum marks one can score in this revised format is 340 (170 in Quant and 170 in Verbal) and 6 in AWM. An examinee can miss one or more questions on a multiple-choice section  and still receive a perfect score of 170. Likewise, even if no question  is answered correctly, 130 is the lowest possible score.320 is a very good score and might fetch you an admit from the top schools. Although GRE is not the only parameter taken into account by Schools, it is one of the main parameters. Other factors are TOEFL/IELTS scores, undergrads GPA, internships and projects, work experience in the related field, Statement of Purporse(SOP), the Letters of Recommendation(LOR), extra curriculars.In general, to secure a 320+ score, you need to have a very good vocabulary, solid basic concepts in Mathematics and good writing skills.By good vocabulary I mean given a word and 3 different sentences making use of the same word in 3 different contexts, you should be able to differentiate and understand the difference in use of the words.For a good quant score, you should have very clear concepts when it comes to topics like Area, Volume, Indices, Data Interpretation. Each quantitative section consists of about 8 quantitative comparisons, 9  problem solving items, and 3 data interpretation questions.The AWM section will be a cake walk if you are well read and write in some form or the other. The analytical writing section consists of two different essays, an  "issue task" and an "argument task". The writing section is graded on a  scale of 0–6, in half-point increments.PRACTICE. PRACTICE. PRACTICE. This is the key to GRE success. The more you practice, the better you will be able to tackle questions in the given amount of time. Solve at least 6 full length tests to become used to the format, questions and time frame. ETS Powerprep tests will give you the closest idea of how much you will score in the actual test.All the best :-)







GRE consists of the following sections.Analytical Writing – 2 sections or tasks“Analyze	an issue”“Analyze	an argument”Verbal Reasoning – 2 sections25 questions/sectionQuantitative Reasoning – 2 sections25 questions/sectionIt is not much difficult to score in quant. Manhattan and Kalpan are the best sourcesYour verbal ability accounts for two thirds of your score; quantitativeability accounts for the rest. To do well in GRE, you must ace thelinguistic side of the test.How do you do that?Cultivatea habit of reading extensively. Any book (my personal recommendation are the classics), magazines – TheEconomist, Reader’s Digest.newspapers – NewYork Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Guardian(the best content lies in the editorials, and definitely not in the Page-3/entertainment section), websites and news sites (BBC has some of the finest content).Moving on to the Verbal Reasoning section. The finest tool you can equipyourself with, to crack this section is a vast vocabulary. Now, some of us are somehow blessed with a vast vocabulary, most of us,unfortunately, aren’t. That makes learning vocabulary our primary challenge in cracking GRE.How do I build my vocabulary?Extensive reading helps; but this is tedious method of getting there. There is extensive literature available on GRE specific vocabulary; various sources are give you this list. Kaplan’s and Barron’s have their long and condensed lists for you.Thebest of them all, however, is VocabSmith. (I must confess here that Irepresent VocabSmith). VocabSmith teaches you the words with meaning,usages and synonyms. VocabSmith uses the state-of-art RST algorithm,which is the most advanced learning methodology for vocabulary.Psychological research suggests that new words are learned best by repeated exposure to them, up to 4-7 times.VocabSmith’s RST algorithm governs your exposure to the words, in a frequency determined to be the most optimized, as suggested by proven psychological research. The algorithm further aligns this revision on the user’s difficulty in learning the words – you find a word difficult, no problem, VocabSmith revises it more for you. This way,VocabSmith ensures that your time spent on the tool maximizes your retention of the words, and associate with word usages.VocabSmith’s content has been prepared by veterans who’ve been in this industry for over 15 years. The list of words in each of its courses have been carefully chosen, so as to optimize your preparation for GRE. You could choose from the following three packages:GRE Complete – For the marathoners. This course contains the complete	GRE word list of 3500+ words.GRE High Frequency – For the medium-distance runners. This course contains a thoroughly-researched list of 1000+ words repeated often	in GREGRE Ultra High Frequency – For the sprinters. This course contains	400+ words that have appeared the most often in GRE.Itis available in both Android and iOS versions. Links are given below:iOS:	 https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/...Android:	https://play.google.com/store/ap...







I scored a 320+ with Q:170.GRE is a tricky exam which just can't be randomly answered. I started two months prior to the exam. The first thing I did was to research about the books that you will be reading from and here is my view about books:ETS GRE Official Book- This book is a must, it gives insights to what actual GRE will be and is the closest to GRE level. It contains all information about the exam, practice sets in verbal and Quants and AWA and two written tests. Apart from written tests, you get a CD which contains powerpep softwareManhattan 5LB- This is a comprehensive book, has exhaustive practice sets for RCs, SE and TC and gives you tips to study. I found Quants from Manhattan easy most of the time . It is a recommended book for verbalPrinceton Review- This book is for beginners, I would recommend this book only to those who haven't had a chance to verse well with English ,the level is easier than GRE for both Quants and verbal. Don't buy this book if you are well versed with Quants and Verbal.As far as my schedule goes, I had to manage it along with my undergrad( Engineering). I would give 4–5 days a week for verbal ,esp RCs. It's always better to work in group for verbal, discuss with your friends, or your GRE teacher if you have joined tutorials. Focus on vocab, but not too much ,GRE is no longer vocab centric , Manhattan 1000 words, Princeton 1409 and magoosh flash cards are enough for this. Start with your vocab early,read and understand words while you are free, or in your commute. TC and SE are scoring questions ,I focussed more on them rather than RCs.Coming to Quants, I just used Manhattan 5LB. Since I appeared for JEE Mains engineering entrance exam, which has much higher level mathematics, I didn't find the need to study for GRE, as Quants is more about your basic maths and alertness to tricky questions.Lastly, I gave a lot of mock exams, 6 Manhattan tests from their portal which costs around $40. 2 Princeton tests and 2 ETS Powerprep. I found Manhattan tests extremely helpful esp in Quants, on other hand I found Princeton verbal easy and Quants nearly same as GRE . Powerprep has two tests and both are of utmost importance, test 1 seems easier than test 2. Your final exams marks can be nearly +/-3 of Powerprep 2 obv not without exceptionsDon't over study, be calm and chilled for GRE, study regularly, converse with your friends in English or maybe play a vocab game. I used to play vocab game in magoosh with my friends by challenging them.All the best for your GRE!Protip: Anytime during exam if you feel that the level of questions has fallen down, realize that you performed bad in the previous section as GRE is adaptive. Rejoice if the level is same or harder :p







Scoring 320+ in GRE is all about applying your analytical mind. Here's how you can score 320+.....1. Find your weak point. i.e. Verbal or Quant.2. Give a mock test (given at start of every GRE book). I would suggest ETS book.3. Find your strength and weakness. Focus on weak points. In my case, it was Reading Comprehensions.4. As you now know your strength and weakness. Plan a schedule and give more time to your weak points. You can find your plan here. 2-3 Month GRE Study Guide - Magoosh GRE Blog5. Start with Manhattan Book. You can find the material here. Manhattan GRE 8 sets6. Give daily effort on your preparation like 1-2 hours is more than enough. Don't do it like 7-8 hours a day.7. As you are a working professional, so spend 1 hour on weekdays and 3-4 hours on weekends.8. After you are done with Manhattan, start giving practice tests in ETS practice book and 1014 GRE Practice Questions. You can buy it here.1014 GRE Practice Questions (English) - Buy 1014 GRE Practice Questions (English) by seltzer, neill|author;princeton review|author Online at Best Prices in India - Flipkart.com9. Next the most important thing is Analytical writing, you have to just write two essays in it. In one you have to show your views and in another you have to write an argument.10. And yeah most important, EXERCISE DAILY (not preparation of GRE), I'm talking about physical exercise. Give atleast half hour daily to your body, as it will freshen your mind.11 . Another most important thing, sleep well. Because it will help you recollect every concept you have read on your previous day.All the BEST for your preparation.







The BasicsFirst off, let me assume you haven't completed an Engineering degree in a First-World Anglophone country, because a lot of my advice probably wouldn't apply to you then. I also don't think you'd have any problems scoring 330 as easy as pie because of the way you've been educated, so this post won't apply to you then. If you haven't however, a score of 330+ on the GRE signifies one of two things: You're either exceptionally well-rounded in both the Verbal and the Quantitative aspects of your education, meaning you won't lose more than 10 points aggregate in all your sections combined. There's a few people I know who're this way despite their Third-World upbringing. Hats off to them.Or, as I was, you're talented enough to score 170/170 on only one of your sections, and you've prepared well enough and done what's required on test-day not to lose more than 10 points on your other section. This was me. I knew I would get 169-170 on my Quants all along, it was all about damage limitation on GRE Verbal (which I wasn't very good at) and making sure I didn't squander more than ten points on test day. I succeeded, but not without some serious doubts along the way.So the objective is clear. You've got to avoid losing more than 10 points on test-day, Verbal and Quants combined. Let me talk about how I managed to accomplish that feat and how you can do the same.GRE VerbalFor me, Verbal was far and away the most difficult of all three GRE Sections, simply because of the limitations in my vocabulary and the types of questions that I encountered when I practiced for the GRE. If you're in the same boat, you'll fully understand how preparing for GRE Verbal can sometimes fill you with doubt and depression, because you've simply got no idea about what the right answer choice could be. The way I see it, the most crucial aspect to mastering GRE Verbal is not how much time you spend preparing. It hasn't even got much to do with how many words you know.The most crucial skill on GRE Verbal is Context.What does that mean? Basically, you need to know how the different words in English you're already familiar with can be used in differing contexts to provide alternate meanings. This is how you should inculcate context into your GRE Preparation:First things first. Buy a complete prep book for GRE Verbal. I chose Kaplan GRE Premier, but only because that was the book somebody else recommended to me. Barron's and ETS are more than good enough as well.Go through all the question types, tips and practice questions provided in at least one of these books. Doing so will ingrain the format of the question paper and the probable words you're likely to come across on the day of the test itself. If you make a mistake in answering a question, write that down in a separate booklet, understand why you made that mistake (unknown word, wrong context etc.) and make sure it doesn't happen again.I would also recommend going through all the resources available on the Magoosh website (https://gre.magoosh.com/) as well as the apps they've got for GRE Verbal, available for smartphones. They really helped brush up my vocabulary.I've also covered GRE Verbal Preparation in more detail here:What can I do to improve my verbal score in the GRE from 153 to 160+?GRE QuantsI didn't need to spend a lot of time preparing for the Quantitative Section of the GRE, partly because it was just 10th Grade Math, and partly because I knew I had more pressing issues to deal with a.k.a Verbal. But if you feel like you need to do better in Quant, there's really no substitute for practice. The books that I've mentioned previously have all got chapters devoted to GRE Quants as well, so getting questions to practice with shouldn't be a problem. Work on the mathematical concepts that you'll need for the test, improve your time management skills, and you'll be fine.Analytical WritingAgain, AWA wasn't especially relevant to my GRE Preparation since I'm going to be applying for an MS in an Engineering discipline, so anything above 4.0/6.0 was fine by me. There are two kinds of essays you'll have to write on test-day, 30 minutes each, with slightly different writing styles. The best way to improve your essay writing skills is to read the sample essays that're given in your prep books, and practice using similar words when you write your own pieces. This goes without saying, but please make sure your essays are devoid of any grammatical/spelling mistakes, as those kinds of errors tend to be looked upon very poorly. Lastly, here's an here's an extensive guide written by the lads over at CrunchPrep on scoring 330+ on your GRE.Hope this helps :)







GRE is not a test of your intelligence. It's more about how well you are able to hack the exam pattern and temperament.To go from 320 or 325 to 330/330+ makes all the difference and every point needs to be earned.Verbal: Assuming most people appearing for GRE from India are engineers or atleast from STEM background, Verbal gives nightmares to everyone. Blame it on our schools who taught us to mug up answers in English.Vocab: Don't be lazy about Vocab! It pays rich dividends. Good vocab prep means Sentence Equivalence and Text Completions part done so 8/20 questions taken care of. It helps tremendously in improving AWA quality, understanding RCs and TOEFL writing too. Start slowly and build up from there. Start with 333 High frequency word list, then move on to 800 word list, then 2000 and so on. 10 days prior to GRE focus on 800 word list. It helps the most. (If you are preparing for GRE under severe time constraints, Barron’s800 word list is your saviour). 90% of words on my GRE were from list and I was able to solve all questions by process of elimination because I knew all options or all but one in worst case scenario. There are several apps& websites available like : Magoosh Flashcards, Quizlet, Memrise etc. They have different formats. Pick what suits you the best. My personal favourite was Memrise because reviewing words already learnt is as important if not more as compared to learning new words. Set short targets such learning 20 new words.Reading Comprehensions: pace yourself well while reading. First reading should be mostly skimming through the text. If you don't understand something don't fret. You don't need to understand the whole passage to crack it. Don't trust instincts/gut feeling/memory either. Read every option and verify with relevant parts of passage. (Paraphrasing may help if you are really quick at reading). GRE tries to trick you by twisting/omitting/adding usually a word in the options which isn't in the passage. Thumbrule: eliminate any negative/out of context/ controversial options. More the practice and mock tests, better will be your RCs part.Quant:Manhattan 5 pound is a great book to start off and tackle questions of varying difficulty. Note: Don't skip Advance Quant part. Due to adaptive nature of tests you may get difficult questions in 2nd quant so it's a good idea to get used to it.How to avoid silly mistakes? By accepting them. Whenever I made a mistake in a mock test, instead of classifying under the broad banner of silly mistakes, I would write it down. Example “I calculated % instead of %change” etc.Utilise all 35 mins. Recheck every answer, using substitution or something. It really helps to eliminate silly mistakes.AWA: Usually we just have to clear a cut off for AWA.Read sample essays initially.Practice writing under timed conditions so you know how to manage those 30 mins.Leave 4–5 mins at end for proofreading twice. We tend to ignore spelling mistakes during first reading.General:Practice a lot of mocks with timed conditions so you are accustomed to various exam formats (number and sequence of verbal and quant sections)Keep a track of progress and keep reviewing mistakes.GRE is a test of temperament. Practice sitting in a chair in front of a computer and keeping your brain in full concentration mode for 4 hours at a stretch!Cheers! All the best!







Here’s how I scored 330+ with a 3 week preparation plan!It is important to understand that the GRE is very different as compared to the other exams we are used to giving, talking from an Indian’s perspective. Blind hard work will not serve any purpose and sometimes will be counterproductive.ETS (the company that conducts the GRE) wants to convince you that your score is a measure of how good you are at ‘critical thinking’, but in reality it is only a measure of how good you are at giving the GRE. So, fortunately for us, the more you practise in the correct way, the better you become at giving the GRE.The Correct Way (in my experience) :Quality > Quantity. Always. Please do not spend 10+ hours a day mechanically solving problems and forgetting about them as you move forward. This will cause you to plateau at a certain skill level. The key is small incremental improvements.For me, the ideal way was a simple 3 step process :1.	Solve problems in small sets, around 20(+5 || -5) questions per set.2.	Check your answers. See the solutions, understand them thoroughly.3.	After checking all, recap the questions you got wrong, why, and what you learnt from them. This is extremely important.Let’s jump into the schedule now, shall we?Pre-prep phase (1 week) :Okay, I lied, it’s not really 3 weeks, but this pre-prep phase won’t take more than two hours of your time per day, and what’s more, you can easily do this while you eat or just before sleeping.What is to be done? Words, Words and more Words.Spend this week learning the words from the following apps :1.	Barron’s 11002.	Magoosh Flash Cards (around 1000 words)3.	Manhattan Essential Words (around 500 words)Vocabulary is essential to understanding the Reading Comprehensions as well as the sentence completions, so please complete this before moving ahead!Week 1 :Congratulations! The boring part is done. This week, let’s do :1.	4 Practice Tests2.	Practise each type of question in isolation. For example, do 20 Text Completions in one set. This will help you to identify weaknesses to work on.3.	Brush up all the shortcuts and maths formulae that you encounter.(Online Magoosh article exists)Week 2 :This week, let’s move forward with :1.	6 Practice Tests.2.	Do mixed practice sets now (All types of problems together), to simulate the actual GRE scenario.3.	Strictly time your tests and practice sets. Keep 5 minutes per section as a buffer. Identify which type of questions you are slow at. Work on them.Week 3 :Buckle up, this is your final lap :1.	8 practice tests.2.	Start reading AWA essays online, as well as general structuring tips. A lot of video material is available online. Practise a few essays if necessary.3.	Revise the Vocabulary words and mathematical formulae.At the end of this schedule, you should be ready to face the GRE. So be confident, sleep well before the paper and ohh, don’t forget to carry a jacket. It’s freezing in there.Thanks for reading! Please do upvote if this helped you.







After  making up your mind for masters degree abroad, the next thing to do to  make your dream come true, is to prepare for GRE. Unless and until you  are an expert in quantitative methods and English verbal skills, you  need GRE practice and preparation to excel the exam with flying colors.  Practice makes you comfortable and known to the exam pattern and course.  It is necessary for all, but compulsorily important to students those  native speaking language is not English.Although the test papers maybe an easy  task for students who have done enough practice, but not first time  attempts directly at the exam time it could be taxing! GRE undergoes  changes in its question papers every year which makes it highly  competitive and a challenge to score higher. There is a huge competition  among thousands of students who appear for GRE test papers. Hence it is utmost important to be well-prepared.GRE (Graduate Record Examination) scores  are required by graduate schools of English speaking countries like  Australia, UK, US and others for giving admission to international  students in various academic graduate level programs. This test  evaluates skills of the students on the basis of three sections:  1. Analytical writing  2. Verbal reasoning  3. Quantitative reasoningIn computer-based test format ‘unscored’ and ‘research’ sections are also included; the scores are not shown on the test.Basic Tips to Prepare for GRE and Test Papers:Make a strategy and follow it  religiously to study regularly for each section. Every section of GRE is  unique, thus require diverse preparation.Be thorough with analytical writing.  This section measures candidates’ focus, intelligence for discussion and  their ability to put forth complex ideas with suitable examples. To  gain mastery over analytical skills, read a lot especially articles on  diverse topics and try to analyze them with varied perspectives.Keep your knowledge bank updated. Be  aware of national and international important happenings and events.  Read regular national dailies and magazines that contain information of  latest occurrences of the world. Follow televisions and internet for the  same.Practice for quantitative reasoning.  This section evaluates candidates’ skills to study and interpret the  quantitative issues and how they can use their mathematical skills to  solve them. Subjects like geometry, algebra, arithmetic, probability and  statistics are included. Practice and clarity of concepts can make you  score higher.Get complete hold of verbal reasoning  section by prior practice. This section examines the ability of the  aspirants to comprehend what they have read and how they draw and  investigate conclusions out of it. Read as much as you can English  language materials. Also analyze and write as much as you can.To prepare for GRE select the  preparation books with care. The books should cover all relevant topics  of each and every section of the exam. You can also download study  material from government’s GRE website. Downloading software like  POWERPREP II would be of great help to get acquainted with the tests in  terms of time, questions test design, on-screen calculator and testing  software.Before starting the exam read the questions carefully, understand what answer is required and then start answering.







ure-Shot success planGRE verbal is not like GRE Quant. Unlike GRE Quant, you need to give yourself as much time as possible to acquire the required reading skills.Resources Required• Access to reading resources mentioned above• GRE Official Guide• Subscription to Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• A notebook (Yes, you will need it)• Some sticky notesThe plan• Read an article every day from the opinion pages from the above mentioned resources• Focus on the usage of support signals, contrast signals, causal signals, concession signal and expounding signals• Make a list of all the signals you encounter and make notes on their usages• Make logical predictions whenever you encounter these signals and read further to check if you were correct• Make a note of all the words you encounter and learn their meanings as used in the context• Write down the words (just the words) on sticky notes and stick them in your study area. These notes should remain posted till the time you are done with your GRE. When you see these words every day you recall the words and your familiarity with these words increases• After you are almost 15 days through, start taking small Text Completion tests available on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes• Once you feel that you are make good enough progress with the understanding of the text, you are in a position to take some Reading Comprehension practice tests on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes. Make a note of the same. Do not commit the same errors• You must be taking a Reading Comprehension and Text Completion test every day. You must have developed ample reading skills by the end of 45 days• Your vocabulary must have also strengthened by now• Start practicing some Sentence Equivalence questions on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes. Make a note of the same. Do not commit the same errors• You have done all the above and you have almost completed 60 days of your prep• Now try your hand on the official content. Go through the Official Guide and finish all the practice questions• Try those questions once again which you got wrong in the first attempt• Note down all the words that you are not familiar with• Keep working on all the words that you encounter in the Official Guide as these are the words that you will find on the GRE• Take all GRE Verbal Sectional Tests available on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Take necessary corrective actions and practice those areas where you are unable to scoreFollow this process religiously and give yourself almost 3 months; you will see that you are developing your skills and the most convoluted questions appear very easy.Subscribe to any of our convenient subscriptions plans to unleash the true power of GRE Prep.Remember, we here at TCY are committed to your success.







I got 336 on my GRE within 20 days, (V166 Q170) and I can talk about how I got it here. I started at around 320 from my first mock test, and obviously GRE preparation should usually depend on the individuals, to be more specific, their backgrounds, their goals, and sometimes their time budget, but generally, it consists of the following phases. I’ll focus less on selecting books and softwares and instead talk more on general strategy and time allocation:1.Self-assessment & Planning (1–2 weeks): Make a target score based on your grad school goals. Then take a few diagnostic tests to see where you’re at. Identify areas you need to work on: vocabulary, reading, or certain math areas you’ve already forgotten about, and based on your goal and current level, you can figure out how much time you need to work on improvement.2. Practice & Improvement (2–10+ weeks): It really depends on your schedule. Most people I know spend 1–3 months studying for GRE, and after the first phase, you now should have a better idea how much time you need to work on GRE. Now that you’ve identified areas you need work on, start working on them relentlessly and making progress. For this Phase I have generally 4 tips:Focus. The famous 80/20 Rule[1] states that roughly 80% of your outcomes come from 20% of your inputs. This applies to GRE as well. There will be areas on GRE where you can most quickly improve. When the time is limited, you need to focus on those areas to make the most progress. Take a few mock tests and find those spots, and work on them relentlessly.Make mistakes. Don’t worry about them at all. It is a good thing to find yourself making mistakes when you’re practicing than you do on the real test. When you practice, you want to expose all the possible ways you make mistakes, and then find ways to avoid them. The reality is, aside from the vocabulary, GRE hardly covers anything that esoteric. In many cases, it’s the silly mistakes you make that really keeps you from getting your dream score. Learning how to avoid those mistakes can allow you to improve quickly. You just need to identify them first, by making them.Analyze. Don’t just practice questions after questions. Think about them. Find patterns, find how you get them wrong, and find quicker ways to solve these questions. At the end of the day, it’s not the quantity of questions that you practiced on that matters the most, it’s how you treat them. Don’t just focus on getting the questions right, focus on how to get better.Consolidate. After you’ve practiced, made mistakes, and analyzed them, now it’s time to consolidate your takeaways. Make yourself a list of actions you can take during the actual test to help yourself perform better. Take a good look at them before the next time you practice, and make a final list before you take the real test to keep yourself reminded of these takeaways.Many of my friends have asked me how I got the score I have. Frankly this is it. Now I’m building Gregory to help people do these things automatically. I’d be happy to hear any thoughts/feedback on it.3. Mock Tests (1–2 Weeks): Although you have taken the diagnostic tests and have practiced for weeks by the time you enter this phase, it’s now time to get ready for the real test. Try to find the best pace for yourself, and figure out the common errors you tend to make to avoid losing points to silly mistakes. This is especially important for the math section. Before the test, put together a list of actionable items to remind you of things you tend to overlook during the real test and try to avoid them.These are my advice for any test takers, feel free to reach out or leave a comment for any questions.Footnotes[1] What Is The 80/20 Rule And Why It Will Change Your Life







Hi! I have taken the General GRE exam in March 2017 and scored 329/340 with 163 in Verbal and 166 in Quantitative. I will tell you my experience and in general some tips as to how to fare well on the exam. Nevertheless, preparation strategies vary from person to person.If you want to get an idea as to where you stand even before you start your preparation, I would suggest you to take a free mock test online. I would recommend the one offered by Galvanize. It's not a full test, but has one Verbal section and one Quantitative section. You just need to spend an hour and you would get an idea when you check your scores as to where you made mistakes and which concepts you need to learn better. This, in my opinion, embarks your preparation for GRE!The most important thing to do is to first book your test date. Until and unless your test date is booked, you would not get the requisite motivation to start your preparation. That was what I did. I first scheduled my test and then took the mock to see where I stood. I scored 302/340 in the mock test. I was not at all prepared. So the results were as expected. I found out the concepts I needed to study and started working on them.Talking about how much time you need to invest preparing for the test, it is totally dependent on what you do. If you are an engineering student or a mathematics student or someone taking math courses and constantly staying in touch with the subject, I assure you that Quantitative section would be a cakewalk! At the same time, I would like to emphasize that ETS has raised the bars for Quantitative section and it is not as trivial as it once seemed to be (I'm not generalizing anything here; whatever I say is what I opine). If you want to start from scratch and study everything throughly, I'd highly recommend enrolling for some online GRE coaching.You can subscribe for Magoosh as it would prep you up for the toughest questions - questions that are too tough that ETS might not consider asking them- which is a very good thing as you would find the actual test pretty easy! You can take a subscription for three months or six months depending on what is ideal for you and depending on when you have scheduled your test. Do not think of it as a waste of money because in the worst case scenario where you do bad in your first attempt, you might end up wasting more money for your second attempt! So it's okay to spend some money when necessary because it's worth it. :)Practice all the material religiously, and work everyday. Make sure you have the ETS official book with you and also download the Powerprep software from ETS website. Set a target, say, that you would complete your first round of preparation in a month and then take the first test on the Powerprep software. Depending on your score, you would know where you stand. You can then improve your score by focusing more on areas where you lost marks. Take the second test one week before your actual test date after you think you're fully prepared. That test is relatively tougher than the first one. Spend the last one week practicing rigorously.VerbalVocabulary plays a crucial role in Verbal section, but, remember that it is not everything. It contributes to about 20% of your score on verbal section. The most important aspect is practicing comprehensions and text completions. GRE is an exam which you can excel by practicing more and more problems! That's the key to scoring high on GRE. So don't spend too much time simply learning words. Instead, practice more questions and continue learning words. This approach is more helpful.QuantitativeThe key to scoring high on quantitative is practice and practice and practice! Also, remember that the exam would put you under a time pressure. So practice with time and try to do as many questions as you can with minimum number of mistakes. Every question is worth the same score. So focus more on getting questions right than on somehow answering all the questions.Analytical WritingIt would suffice to score above 3.5 in this section, but I would suggest you to spend some time and get a better score. It's not all about getting a reasonable score but it's about getting a decent and deserving score. If you're good at essay writing and arguments, you would hardly need to spend any time for this section. Otherwise, you need to practice writing and the more you practice, the better you get at it. ETS asks questions only from the given pool of essays. So make sure to check them out. I have practiced several topics from the pool of essays and scored 5/6 in this section.There are websites that have collections of GRE preparation books including Kaplan, Baron's, Manhattan, Princeton and old ETS books. So try to get them and practice as much as you can! :)Finally, I would say practice makes your GRE score perfect! I mean it literally, a perfect score of 340 is attainable with practice. :)All the best!PS: I have forgotten to mention this. In order to improve vocabulary on a long-term basis, do study Word Power Made Easy by Nornan Lewis. But this book doesn't cover several GRE words! So please download the app called “Painless GRE”. It has around 4000 words. Once you're done learning them, most of your vocabulary prep is done! :)







Be sure to register early for your GRE exam so that there is enough time to process any necessary paperwork, and so that you can take the exam at the center of your choice and at your desired time and date. You can register late by paying a fee of $25. However, be sure to take the exam at a date which will enable ETS to send your score report to the school(s) of your choice before the school application deadline. When you register for the GRE, make double sure that you print and provide your name EXACTLY as it appears on your identification document(s).For the paper-based GRE revised General Test, you can register by mail or online. The paper-based exam is offered in areas of the world where the computer-based version of the exam is not available. To register Online, use the Online Registration System. To register by mail, and for additional registration information, visit the ETS Registration and Downloads page on the ETS website.







Thanks for the A2A!Here are some strategies I followed while preparing for the GRE. Keep them in mind as you plan your own preparation.Quants:The topics the questions are based on are simple, it is the questions that are tricky.The GRE mentions certain instructions - read the question carefully, figures are not drawn to scale, etc - which seem fairly obvious. However, since we’re always in a hurry to solve the sum and move on, we tend to make silly mistakes, which will cost us that easy extra point in the exam.One method I personally found useful to fix this was using Manhattan’s 8 Strategy guides. These books actually detail a majority of the types of tricks the GRE will use to trick you. Compiling a list of tricks that I always seemed to fall for and revising them before every test I gave, helped keep me aware of the possible tricks I could encounter as soon as I saw a sum, thus improving my accuracy.Aim to maximize your quants score as far as possible. Practice a lot, the Manhattan 5 lb. book has a lot of great sums. Solve from the ETS Official books without fail.Verbal:Start the word lists as early as possible, ideally much before you start actual prep even. Use the time you take to travel to and from college or work to do these words. The word lists I did were Magoosh (excluding advanced), Manhattan and Barrons 1100.Another thing to practice beforehand is reading. GRE Reading Comprehensions are dreaded by all. The language can be quite tough and attempting to understand it can drain your mental energy. Couple that with long, winding passages? You just might fall asleep in the middle of the RC itself. Train yourself not only to read long passages and but to read those passages with the same attentiveness throughout. Building this stamina will help you on test day, when sitting for nearly four hours straight will already be a drain on your energy.For the individual Verbal question types, the only mantra is practice, practice and practice. But don’t just blindly solve 100 questions at a go, as tempting as that may be. Solve sets of 20 questions of a particular question type, note down the mistakes made and reflect on what could be done to rectify it. Note down these strategies and read through them from time to time, especially emphasizing on mistakes that you make often.ETS Official books, Manhattan 5 lb, Princeton’s 1014 GRE Questions (for TCs and SEs) and Verbal Grail (for RCs) were some of the books I used. Many people swear by Word Power Made Easy for building language as well, although I’ve never used it. A lot of the articles on the Magoosh blog are also helpful in devising strategies to solve particular question types.Tests:Give as many tests as you can. The GRE is a long exam. Therefore, it is necessary to build up the stamina to maintain your focus throughout the exam.AWA:AWA was a last moment thing for me. Went through the Manhattan AWA Strategy Guide and picked up a few pointers, which I then applied on exam day.Practice a few essays beforehand. You should make sure that you are able to complete them while ensuring that they were also of appropriate length.Lastly, finding a group of friends or a buddy at work who is giving the GRE as well is definitely a boon. A bunch of my friends gave the GRE at the same time as I did and discussing words from time to time, sharing resources and solving each others doubts definitely helped sharpen my own skills.If you prefer a week by week plan, check out this answer :Suhail Barot's answer to How should I prepare for GRE in one month to score 320 +?Hope this helps :)







Thanks for A2A.Please follow the below the steps to apply for GRE-Go to https://www.ets.org/gre and click on Register Now at the left bottom of the screen.You will be taken to login window, select Create or Login to your ETS Account nowCreate your account using your email-id and choose your password.Once done you will be redirected to your dashboardSelect Register/Find Test Centres, DatesSelect your test centers, dates accordingly and proceed with the payment.Please use a credit card for payment.Hope this helps. For any further information, please feel free to reach out to me.Cheers!!-Kush..







Agreed, GRE is a tough nut to crack, but only when you lack proper planning, strategy and discipline. With a little planning and foresight, it will suddenly start looking orderly, logical and attainable. GRE preparation is a rigorous mental workout, which builds your accuracy, timing and confidence after consistent practice. One needs to train his/her mind to ingrain the concepts, techniques and strategies that are essential to crack GRE, and be able to invoke them during the exam. Also, preparation necessitates one to strike a right balance between study and breaks. Breaks serve as revitalizers to escape from unexciting routine of daily preparation, and if not taken in time, can lead to information overload and eventual burnout.Reaching a score plateau can be quiet a frustrating reality. The key is to keep pressing forward with increased positivity, better focus and fine-tuning your study plan to make the most of it. The idea is to reach the Peak after having worked on your accuracy, timing yourself appropriately and scoring high in practice tests. Once your score hits a point you have set your mind on, it is the most opportune moment to take GRE.You may want to take care of these little things to ensure success in the GRE:Your brain has a level of saturation beyond which its efficiency starts reducing. Take regular breaks and let your brain refresh and recharge itself. Once that happens, you will be able to bounce back and achieve much more.Set a right rhythm for GRE. Just cramming and practicing like a maniac will not work. You need to follow a steady strategy of learning-understanding-analysing-practicing-taking mock test followed by a well-deserved break.Monitor your progress in terms of your timing, accuracy and score continuously.Consistent practice is always better than last minute rigors. HOW TO CRACK GREMake a concrete, but realistic study plan and try to stick to it. It will put you in the right trajectory of discipline, where you will start to take your study as seriously as you take your dentist’s appointment after an excruciating toothache. HOW TO CRACK GREWhile you are self-motivated to study the subjects you are good at, you need to bury your head like the proverbial ostrich and practice the subjects you are not so fond of. Facing and overcoming your weak areas will make you better equipped and more confident.Over exertion and last minute cramming can prove detrimental to your scores. Make sure you are not stressed out, get enough sleep and eat healthy food before the exam day. HOW TO CRACK GREFollowing a routine over a period of time, taking practice tests at exactly the same time as your GRE slot does a lot of good to not only set your biological clock, but also gives you a subconscious training for taking the GRE.Divide your time assiduously. Do not keep reading one subject continuously. It is wise to alternate between two or different subjects to keep your interest level alive.GRE score is not a measurement of your intelligence, but is an indicator of how well planned, dedicated and positive you are as a person. Do not let GRE blues knock you down. Take it with a composed and forward looking approach.For more information on GRE/TOEFL/IELTS/GMAT, please visithttp://www.collegepond.com/resou...MS in US 2019 || Collegepond







GRE PREPARATION STRATEGYTry to follow this Chronological GRE Preparation Strategy~First of all take a Diagnostic Test, available at ETS. Analyse your Scores.This Score will give you an idea of your strengths and shortcomings. You should plan and devote time for your GRE preparations accordingly.The GRE Quant tests your basic level of Maths, Specially for Engineering students. You should aim for a full score 170 in Quantitative section. This would help in increasing your overall score.The main area of Concentration is the Vocabulary and RC in the Verbal section.You should Download these two Apps for your iOS/Android device- Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flashcards & Barron's 1100 Words. These are well organised Apps for GRE Vocab Building.An average student needs 300 hours of GRE Preparation to aim for 300+ Scores (I'm not considering the Super Kids who write GRE in 15/20/30 Days & get 320+ Scores). You should calculate you time that can be spared in Weekdays/Weekends for GRE prep. This way you can estimate your tentative date for GRE Exam. Generally 3–4 months time is enough for Preparation.Spare another 20–30 hours for writing Full-length tests, in the last week of Preparations.Some Important points to Consider before GRE PreparationsYou should do initial research for Specific MS programs. Shortlist Universities in Ambitious & Safe categories. Check their required GRE scores & plan your Preparations accordingly.Start your GRE Prep at least 8–9 months before the start of Application window. So even if you don't get your desired score, then also you have enough time to rewrite it.By the time of your GRE exam you should be in a position to shortlist the Four Universities where you are going to send your Official GRE score for Free. Else you will land up shelling extra $ for sending your Official score.Remember you need another Substantial time to complete the other parts of Application like Transcripts, SOP, LOR etc.If you are looking for Financial Aids & Scholarships then you should be able to apply at the earliest (Preferably when the Application Window opens). Earlier applications gives you a lot of Funding opportunities & it's it's for you to take decisions in picking up the best admits (College Reputation & the Financial Aids).I would Not suggest you to have a Counselor before your GRE scores. However you can join a GRE Coaching (Weekend/Online) if needed.“Don't Practice until you get it Right; Practice until you can't get it Wrong !”All the Best. Keep Rocking!~ Dr SSR.







There are two kinds of institutions offering online GRE courses in India.Type 1 : The international ones like1) Magoosh (80 to 100 USD which works out to Rs.5200 to Rs.6600)2) Kaplan (Rs. 35000 to Rs. 45000) Type 2: The Indian ones like1) GRE edge (Priced at around Rs.5000 to Rs.16000)2) Non specialists like Careerlauncher etc. who also charge somewhere in excess of Rs.6000There are two problems with both these types.1) The courses are not at all modular, try to cover every area from the basics and hence are prohibitively expensive. If you are already skilled in certain areas, this means an absolute waste of time and money. Why would you want to take a 30 hour program of which only 2 hrs are relevant to you?2) The course completion rates are pathetic (usually less than 10%). Why pay Rs.10000 for a course which you are never going to finish?Traditionally, the quality of these courses have always depended on the quality of the instructor. That is the reason why, at ChalkStreet, we find good quality private instructors (who have trained thousands of students with great success) and make highly modular courses and price it at an affordable level. Please check out the following courses, in case, you are preparing for the GRE.GRE Verbal Prep : A Definitive Guide | ChalkStreetGRE Prep: Crack the Quantitative Reasoning Section | ChalkStreetDisclosure: I am the cofounder of ChalkStreet -  but I do not mean this as a solicitation message but feel there is a genuine problem these courses are solving.All the very best for your GRE.Cheers!







Want to prepare for GRE? Here is a 4 step-easy process-Step 1: Get Started with Understanding the GRESo, as the first step, take the time to understand what the GRE will test.GRE Syllabus-1) A section called “Analytical Writing Ability” or AWA, which is basically just essay writingThis section contains two essays:a) “Analysis of an issue” in which you will be asked to write either for, or against a given topic.b) “Analysis of an argument” in which you will be given a situation that you need to argue against.2) Two sections of 35 minutes each for Quantitative Reasoning (fancy-speak for Maths)The four areas in which you will be tested are:a) Arithmeticb) Geometryc) Algebrad) Data Analysis3) Two sections of 30 minutes each for Verbal Reasoning (nothing but plain old English)a) Text Completion in which you will be given a sentence (or two) with one, two, or three blanks. From among the options, you need to pick the word(s) that correctly convey the intended meaning.b) Sentence Equivalence in which you will be given a sentence with one blank and you need to pick two (yes two!) options from among the six given. As you can imagine, the two words you pick should be synonymous, and fit in the blank.c) Reading Comprehension, in which you will be given a passage followed by a set of questions that you need to answer. The answer could either be explicitly stated in the passage (easy!) or implied through context (tough!).4) One section of either Maths or English that is not scoredGRE also gives you one extra section of either Maths or English. Thus, in total, you will have five sectioms.Step 2: Get the right GRE Study MaterialFollowing are the GRE study materials available to you:a) GRE Preparation on the internetWith the advent of online content and fast internet speeds, why would you want to stick to the “traditional” methods of pen and paper? Online GRE preparation gives you the flexibility to study on the go. Test preparation companies such as CrackVerbal offer you great options to study from the convenience of your home. See GRE Online course.b) GRE preparation booksIf you think the internet is a distraction and want to stick to a book, there are several options to choose from. You could either choose resources from a test preparation company like CrackVerbal, or stick to the official books published by ETS, as already discussed. CrackVerbal resources are:The CrackVerbal GRE Verbal GuideThe CrackVerbal GRE Quant Guidec) Free downloadable GRE preparation materialDo you know that Khan Academy has explanatory videos for many topics in the GRE Quantitative Reasoning section? (Trivia: Khan Academy was founded by Salman Khan, who has degrees from MIT and Harvard). You can find the videos here.You can also have a look at learning words through Learning Words the Fun Way – Flashcards. If you find them interesting, you can head over to Amazon to buy the entire set of 500 flashcards with quirky cartoons to help you quickly remember words and their meaning: CrackVerbal’s GRE Flashcards – pack of 500Step 3: Prepare for the GREYou just need a clear GRE study plan that is customized to meet your needs.  For many GRE aspirants, the study plan needs to be designed based on urgency to appear for the exam. For example, if you are planning to apply in August-September (fall intake) and it is already May, you would need an intensive three-month plan to be able to apply with a score.Step 4: Take the GREGRE practice testsBefore you go into the battlefield, you need to ensure that you have enough “match practice”.There is good news and bad news.The good news is that the GRE practice tests offered by ETS. are a fairly accurate indicator of where you will stand on the real test.The bad news is that you have only two full-length practice tests. Hence, after you take the tests, there is really no way to know if you are improving.You can always drop into your nearest CrackVerbal center if you want to take a free test, and have it evaluated by inhouse GRE experts.







The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General TestThe Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition is a book that comes directly from the very same people who set the test, making it ideal for just about anyone who's preparing for the GRE revised General Test. This official guide has practically everything that you could ever need when you're preparing for this exam. Whether you're preparing for this exam to earn your business school degree or for your graduation degree, this guide offers you all the much-sought-after information that you need to crack such an exam. Only ETS can present you with all that you need to know, much before you decide to give such an exam. Here, you gain insight as to how you can score well in such an exam. You are also supplied with countless questions that are based on the pattern of the exam. These questions can be used for practice, thus helping you sharpen your skills. The second edition of the book The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition has been published by Tata McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, in the year 2012 and can be purchased in paperback.Buy The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition Book Online at Low Prices in India







Thanks for A2A. You can start your learning from this. for more help you send me private message on Quora.The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General TestThe Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition is a book that comes directly from the very same people who set the test, making it ideal for just about anyone who's preparing for the GRE revised General Test. This official guide has practically everything that you could ever need when you're preparing for this exam. Whether you're preparing for this exam to earn your business school degree or for your graduation degree, this guide offers you all the much-sought-after information that you need to crack such an exam. Only ETS can present you with all that you need to know, much before you decide to give such an exam. Here, you gain insight as to how you can score well in such an exam. You are also supplied with countless questions that are based on the pattern of the exam. These questions can be used for practice, thus helping you sharpen your skills. The second edition of the book The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition has been published by Tata McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, in the year 2012 and can be purchased in paperback.Buy The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition Book Online at Low Prices in IndiaHappy Learning !!!







There are lots of forums which will help you prepare for GRE. There are apps, websites and blogs like Magoosh, ChalkStreet, http://higheredu.com, Facebook groups and pages which will help you prepare for GRE. Any number of books won’t help you if you don’t practise. Taking up as many mock test as possible should be your main agenda while preparing for GRE. ETS lets you take up 2 mock tests before writing your GRE which almost helps you predict your actual GRE score accurately.GRE involves 3 sections which are namely analytical reasoning, quants and verbal. Indians or Asians in general don’t face much trouble when it comes to the quants section but a fair chunk of them find the verbal section quite challenging since they aren’t accustomed to the vocabulary.GRE is predominantly a vocabulary based test. Being thorough with the high frequency (300) words could make a huge difference in your GRE score. Even a few marks can cost you a seat in your dream university. The knowledge of your vocabulary is immensely tested in various questions like sentence correction, text completion and reading comprehension.Personally I would recommend ChalkStreet and Magoosh. They have dedicated Facebook groups to help GRE aspirants. ChalkStreet also offer free counselling for the aspirants and if you have any queries or doubts you can always ping them and their team of experts will clear your doubts immediately. They also have a discussions forum on their website and app where you can interact with fellow aspirants as well as their experts.ChalkStreet is a great app for android users and it is also available as a website which will help you ace the GRE. It is a website which has courses on diverse subjects at levels to suit the learner. Apart from courses the app/website also has a lot of articles related to higher education. It will not just help you improve your vocabulary immensely. It will also help you with the quants section. It has vast collection of articles and practise questions. There are videos which deal with only the high frequency words and the various shortcuts like etymology which you can use to remember the words and the in-context meaning. Magoosh is also very helpful. Magoosh comes in very handy when it comes to the vocabulary since the app helps you learn the high frequency words in a very structured manner and the user is usually eased into the complicated words and there are ways to check your progress.Online content is the best since you can just glance through it on the go whenever you’re stuck in traffic, travelling or eating. I am all for it







The best prep material in my opinion is the one that is best made use of:Before I get to the nitty gritty of preparation, its extremely important to understand that the GRE isn't the be all and end all of the grad school admission process. The main exam is on a computer and staring at a computer for 5 or more long hours is quite hard to do. Get used to such a test scenario over your prep time. I strongly advocate an online course like Magoosh where everything you'll read will be off a screen rather than a book-That's much more easier to do and is described as a crutch in prep time because its easy to scribble on and easier to the eye. Trust me a passage on screen is much more arduous to read and process than one in a book.And face it books are not well updated and are really easy to breeze through. Manhattan being an exception. I personally used Magoosh, recommended it to everyone who ever uttered the letters G,R and E in a sentence there after. They've got great support staff that are quick to respond to queries and every solution has a video solution and also links you up to related lessons on the concept.  Use their trial period for free it'll be a nice test drive to try all their features . Their score projection pie charts really motivate you to come study everyday- Consistency is key during prep time.Also use Magoosh preferably during the same hours of the day you'd have your GRE appointment. The mind tunes itself to those hours for studying and staring into a bright screen. The GRE is more of an endurance test than one that tests intelligence.The Magoosh blog is free for everybody i.e users and non-users. It compliments the magoosh material and has many many tips that can fine tune your preparation. Chris from Magoosh has videos called vocabulary wednesdays - free on  the magoosh you tube channel- highly recommend it.Talking about vocab keep a notebook handy to write down new words everyday you encounter on Magoosh- this means every word, the right and wrong answers on every sentence based question. skim through it every night before bedtime. The notebook should have meanings paraphrased for your benefit not what Page on wordnik.com or Dictionary.com say directly. Magoosh has an app for android and iOS not restricting your prep time to just indoors. Never used the app and wouldn't recommend anything but a desktop for prep.Hope this helps.Cheers,Anirudh Ashok







Most of the institutions in canada asks for GRE and IELTS/TOEFL scores. But a really good GRE score doesn't insure your admission in the top tier universities. They primarily looks for a good profile overall, which includes your social awareness, extra-curricular activities, projects, work experience and last and the most important thing is your SOP and recommendation letters. your SOP is the only thing which describes you. Hence, be very descriptive about it. google out some good SOP templates you will get an idea. Preparing and applying early can give you an edge over others.Also you can take help from a professional but be aware of organizations :)Good luck, prepare hard and wish you all the best.







In Canada only the Top Ranked Universities require GRE for their MS/PhD/MBA programs. Most of the average Universities ask simply for English Language test TOEFL/IELTS.The Canadian universities are less competitive and have extreme cold weather conditions which makes them difficult to attract international students so most of them won't ask for GRE score.List of Canadian Universities without GRE Score requirementHere is the list of good universities in Canada without GRE for MS and Phd programs. SinceBrock University2. Carleton University3. Concordia University4. Kwantlen Polytechnic University5. Lakehead University6. Laurentian University7. Laval University8. Memorial University of Newfoundland9. Royal Roads University10. Trent University11. University of Lethbridge12. University of Manitoba13. University of New Brunswick14. University of Northern British Columbia15. University of Ontario Institute of Technology16. University of Prince Edward Island17. University of Regina18. University of the Fraser Valley19. University of WinnipegHere is the List of Canadian Universities accepting GRE scores for MBA courses.University NameCampusesBrock UniversitySt. CatharinesCape Breton UniversitySydney (Community Economic Development)Carleton UniversityOttawaConcordia UniversityMontrealDalhousie UniversityHalifax (MBA in Financial Services)HEC MontrealMontrealIvey Business SchoolTorontoLakehead UniversityThunder BayMcGill UniversityMontrealMcMaster UniversityHamiltonQueens University School of BusinessKingstonSt. Mary's UniversityHalifaxThompson Rivers UniversityKamloopsUniversity of AlbertaEdmontonUniversity of British ColumbiaVancouverUniversity of CalgaryCalgaryUniversity of New BrunswickFrederictonUniversity of QuebecRimouskiUniversity Canada WestVancouverUniversity of ManitobaWinnipegUniversity of New BrunswickSaint JohnUniversity of Ontario Institute of TechnologyOshawaUniversity of OttawaOttawaUniversity of TorontoTorontoUniversity of VictoriaVictoriaUniversity of Western OntarioLondonWilfrid Laurier UniversityWaterlooYork UniversityTorontoMBA Programs that Accept theIt is always advisable to Look for Public Canadian Universities as they are funded by the Government and have much lesser fee structure than the Private Universities.List of Canada’s Province (State) wise Top most Public UniversitiesOntarioUniversity of TorontoYork UniversityUniversity of WaterlooUniversity of WindsorRyerson UniversityQueen’s UniversityMcMaster UniversityUniversity of Western OntarioUniversity of GuelphUniversity of Ontario Institute of TechnologyCarleton UniversityUniversity of OttawaBrock UniversityLakehead UniversityLaurentian UniversityBritish ColumbiaUniversity of British ColumbiaUniversity of VictoriaSimon Fraser UniversityRoyal Roads UniversityCapilano UniversityThompson Rivers UniversityUniversity of the Fraser ValleyVancouver Island UniversityAlbertaUniversity of AlbertaUniversity of CalgaryUniversity of LethbridgeSaskatchewanUniversity of SaskatchewanUniversity of ReginaManitobaUniversity of ManitobaUniversity of WinnipegQuebecUniversity of MontrealMcGill UniversityConcordia UniversityUniversity of QuebecBishop's UniversityAll the Best for your Canadian University Hunt!They say for Canada~ “You can't buy Happiness, but you can stay in Canada and that's pretty much the same thing!”







GRE is usually required by top ranked Public Universities in Canada.It is also true that lower ranked universities might not ask for gre or if they do, they usually waive it.Colleges like George Brown College, Seneca - Toronto, Canada do not ask for GRE. They might waive off Ielts or toefl score too.Popular universities asking for GRE-University of AlbertaUniversity of CalgarySimon Fraser UniversityUniversity of British ColumbiaUniversity of VictoriaMcGill UniversityHEC MontréalWilfrid Laurier UniversityYork UniversityUniversity of WaterlooUniversity of TorontoUniversity of OttawaRyerson UniversityPopular universities not asking for Gre or might waive off -University of ReginaLaval UniversityUniversity of LethbridgeKwantlen Polytechnic UniversityRoyal Roads UniversityUniversity of the Fraser ValleyUniversity of Northern British ColumbiaUniversity of WinnipegUniversity of ManitobaUniversity of New BrunswickMemorial University of NewfoundlandBrock Universityhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ca...Lakehead Universityhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tr...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Un...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Un...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Co...Many Canadian Universities are struggling to get international students due not so great rankings and cold weather. So the will often waive off gre or English requirements.







Dear all, Is depends on course for which you want to apply. You can comment me for the same. Actually most of universities accepts GRE scores in Canada.Canada is country that accepts GRE scores in its business schools. Currently around 27 business schools in Canada accept GRE scores, out of which 5 fall among the top 100 business schools in the World. Among the top 5 business schools in the country, Western University is the only one which does not accept GRE. Also, the average GRE scores accepted in the top universities in Canada is over 150 and not more than 165.Top Business schools accepting GRE scores in Canada:To know more check Top Business Schools accepting GRE Scores across the world.For more queries comment me. Don’t forget to Upvote :)







It depends from university to university. Unlike US Universities, a large number of Canadian universities have GRE as optional. GRE is recommended, but not compulsory. So, when something is recommended, to ace your application, take the GRE.To answer your question unequivocally, take the GRE. If it is necessary, well and good. If it is recommended, you will have an edge.







Yes most Canadian universities ask for GRE scores. If you are curious what the minimal requirement for admissions would be, you can email an admissions officer to get more information about requirements. I would be sure to do this because it will also show them that you are interested in their programs as well. You can find the contact information on the admissions page of most graduate programs.







None. Please don't waste your money on buying full online courses, buy only online tests.The following online tests will most resemble the actual GRE test, in order of importance :ETS PowerPrep 2(download it)Manhattan GREKaplan GREPrinceton GREIf you insist on taking an online course, here's what I got on the web:The 4 Best Online GRE Prep Courses of 2017 - Reviews.comEven the Magoosh course has been helpful to a few of my friends :Magoosh Online GRE PrepIf you are preparing for the GRE, checkout my other answer for a 3 week preparation plan from scratch :Suhail Barot's answer to How should I plan my preparation for the GRE?Best of luck!







Well, that must be PrepScholar.You know, it’s a reputed online GRE institution helping out thousands of students for many years.They have experienced instructors who will always be looking over your shoulder and steer you to the right path.Not just that, PrepScholar offers many other exclusive features likeUnderstanding Individual Needs: When you reach out to PrepScholar, they would first listen to your purposes and the reason why you’re taking GRE course. And if you are not sure of, then they would offer you the needed help.Diagnostic Your Current Level: In this step, they would provided you with 60 question identify your weak zones.Customized Lessons: Once they are done with figuring out your strength and weakness, they would come up with a more personalized lesson plan that suits your needs.Video Lessons: At times you will have to come across some difficult lessons. And to help do away with them, PrepScholar will provide you video lessons crafted by Harvard PhDs.Track Your Progress: And most importantly, they would keep an eye on your progress. If you get stuck with a lesson or math, they would help get it solved asap.An on top of all this, PrepScholar provides a solid guarantee. If your score doesn’t improve, they would refund your money right away.Yes, you read it right. PrepScholar will give your money back if things don’t work out well.So just go ahead and give it shot with confidence.You will surely find it worth opting for….Hope it helpsCheers……







Do not focus only on specific platforms like Kaplan or Princeton Review. There are several other online portals for GRE preparation such as Khanacademy, EduSaathi, etc.All the online courses will offer you the same material essentially. It is up to you to fix a schedule, follow it, and prepare smartly. In short, your success will depend not on the test series you buy, but on your grasp, hard work and dedication only.I highly recommend you to have a look at the video lectures on the YouTube channel of EduSaathi. They are totally FREE and accessible 24x7, and as many times as you want. Also stay tuned to their Facebook page as they keep on posting useful stuff.







There are 2 types which can be categorised:FREE : ETS powerprep software ,it is the best one as the range it gives is the nearest to the actual GRE. (+/- 5 points)PAID : Manhattan review 6 test series ,the average of the 6 tests. ( + / - 2 points )NOTE: Practicing alone would not be of much help. What would matter is that one works upon their weak areas too .Moreover there is a tendency to skip AWA during practice sessions. Refrain from that as a good AWA score always is an add on to a good GRE score.







Every test preparation courses has it’s own way of creating GRE courses. Invest Wisely when it comes to preparing for any test.Here are my thoughts of good investment when it comes to GRE Preparation:One-on-one tutors are quite expensive, but they are still worth it (if you have all the available finances). However, you can do a cheaper version of it -SELF STUDY. You can always study by yourself. Borrow books from your friends, search for materials in the internet that are provided for free.All it takes is Time and Dedication. :)Search for free practice test to check the quality before investing your money.Get to know the books by reading reviews.Learn how to manage your time. A proper time table of activities would be suitable to determine which time you’d do fun things, and which time you are supposed to study. :)Find free Vocabulary Program specifically for GRE words.Hope this helps!







We’ve written a helpful blogpost on GRE Self-Prep for complete details on how to plan to give your exam and prepare adequately, complete with resource links.Check it out at www.virtualcounsellor.in or email us at virtualcounsellorhelp@gmail.com.







Many GRE experts say that you don't need to learn the exhaustive word-list in the new GRE format. Well it's true that you won't encounter many words out of the "high frequency word-lists" on your D-Day. For example, in most of the sentence equivalence questions, your answer will be the pair of words, among which, one is a general word and another one is a High Frequency GRE word. Say, "support" and "bolster". But ETS doesn't provide you any such word-list. Many words in one High Frequency Word List won't be on another list. The truth is, learning 2000-3000 words can give you an extra edge and you can score at least 5 more marks in your verbal section. Not only this. The good thing about learning new words is the fact that this is the only part of your GRE Test which is going to help you in the long run. Suppose you learned a word yesterday and you encounter that word while reading today's newspaper. The bliss it brings is just amazing. Your frequency to check for a word meaning in a dictionary will reduce by nearly 60%. Improving your vocabulary is really a good thing. And the GRE Test is the best excuse to achieve it. Don't take it as a burden. Take it as an opportunity.Okay, I am sorry I digressed from the main question. The best method to memorize GRE Words is to make FLASH CARDS and REVISE REVISE and REVISE. Pick a wordlist and aim to learn 50 words per day. On the next day, before learning the next 50 words, revise what you learned yesterday and make Flash Cards for those words which you don't remember. Also make flashcards of those words which you think you'll probably forget in the future. Don't learn new words on Sunday. Revise all the words you've learned till date from your flashcards.If you don't revise on a weekly basis, most likely you'll forget most of the new words within two weeks.Ankit Sharma's answer to Which is the best word list?Good Luck.







As enlisted in above answers, contextual way of learning of words are better than mugging up for a longer run.But how do we do that?Reading books and newspaper articles,watching movies or engaging in conversations which gives you a proper context to use words.But all these methods takes like forever to learn all the words.Our main concern is how to remember words easily within a shorter duration.How to build your GRE vocabulary in a short span of time?At the same time we can’t overload our brain with words. So how do we learn the words?1. Learn GRE words with pictures-Images help you define words in a meaningful context. They enable you to understand and utilize vocabulary in different aspects of life. In addition, they help you remember the words every time you see the object.Here is how to learn GRE words using pictures and a video on how to use CV Flashcards which you can buy from Amazon.2. Learn Vocabulary for GRE through Word Roots-Root Root words are the basic words to which affixes (prefixes and suffixes) are added to form the new word.Focusing on your test prep time on root words in addition to learning individual word can save your time,energy and improve your score is possible you will see words you do not know.Therefore,knowing the roots may help you get a sense of the general meaning of certain words3. Learn Theme based GRE Words-Your brain loves to make connections between things. So when you’re sad, and it’s raining, there’s a little part of you that feels like maybe your sadness is so heart-wrenchingly profound that you actually altered the weather.Or when you can see a leaf fall from a tree and suddenly get crystal-clear, long-forgotten flashbacks to your first day raking leaves, or visiting the mountains.When you see a leaf, your brain does this:So you can take up a theme and learn around 10 words associating it.Becomes much easier!!These are just a few points but you can check out this blog on - A detailed approach on how to learn vocabulary the points mentioned are really useful and will help you remember GRE words more easily.







It's a great way to start prepping with word list , but it's not as big deal as you might think of it to be. I've seen people going crazy to learn all the words, instead stay calm take them in as you encounter them. Few things that worked out for me were:1- Reading - and the best thing to read when you want to enhance your vocab is newspaper, (The hindu, my personal choice). I used to read editorial everyday and mark the words that I couldn't understand. Gradually, in a week or two you'll start coming across familiar words.2- POS- secondly, the meaning of the word is not enough, you need to know the parts of speech to which it belongs to, if you keep mugging up the word meanings, you might end up using them in wrong places , where they don't fit.3- memrise-  this is the website that worked marvels for me. memrise.com has all the wordlists that you might need. If you practice it regularly, I'm sure it'll help you a lot.4-Usage- using the words as you learn them is the most important thing you should do. You can use them in random conversations with friends. Initially though your friends might think that you are showing off your large vocab, but in the end you'll be the one who'll gain. Words that you use are going to stick to your mind, amf you'll be able to use it again amd again. And this my friend is THE MOST important trick.Hope it helps. All the best :)







Cultivate a habit of reading extensively. Any book (my personal recommendation are the classics), magazines – The Economist, Reader’s Digest,newspapers – NewYork Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Guardian(the best content lies in the editorials, and definitely not in the Page-3/entertainment section), websites and news sites (BBC has some of the finest content).To learn something new (activity, word etc.), learn by making associations. To learn new words, learn them by associating with a few words you already know; and associating with a few sentences.Etymological associations are the best. Learn the root of these words, learn how they were derived. As a bonus, etymological learning opens your horizons to the whole family of new words derived from the same root.Another association is learning with the synonyms. As you come across the new words, learn the synonyms for these words. There's a very fair chance you might know one or more of them.Most importantly, learn by usage. Every new word you learn, understand how it's various forms are used in a sentence. This makes your learning much more concrete. It is now a well established fact that you cannot learn a word by looking at it once, unless you are gifted with anesthetic memory.For the common people like us, we need to read them once, twice, thrice,and many more times. A general thumb rule is that you have to get exposed to the word 4-7 times (tend to the higher side for the more complex words), distributed over 15 days. That drills the word into your sub-conscious mind. Make it a habit to recall these new words regularly. As you read any website or newspaper, try replacing the words with the new set of words you've learnt.Last,and perhaps the best thing you can do is use this newly gained vocabulary as often as possible. You might, at times, sound outlandish; that's fine. Remember, vocabulary is like Siri, the more you use, the better it gets.I used Vocabsmith GRE app and it was very useful to remember words. It helped me learn the words, meanings, etymology, pronunciation, meanings with their usages. Further, VocabSmith would revise all the words over 2-3 weeks; this ensured I wouldn’t forget the words. I had subscribed to their GRE – High Frequency Package(1000 words) and could learn all the words in approximately two months.1.iOS:https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/...2.Android:https://play.google.com/store/ap...







The first question I want to ask you is, from where exactly are you going to find a list which will contain only GRE types of words. You just cant, what you can do is basically prepare for the best for the words which are applicable in your daily life, GRE never asks you the meaning of words that you are never going to use in real life. The whole purpose of giving GRE verbal section is that you can thrive in the American and other countries where English will be the first language for communication.So prepare for the words that you think that are actually going to be helpful in your real life scenarios and which you think could be and would be used in real life. The best way to prepare for these words are picking up reading material that is in your comfort zone and marking down and researching about the words you find foreign yet applicable in your life.So what does researching actually involves?1.Finding the correct meaning through dictonary2. Finding the root of the word if any3 . Finding the synonym and antonym of the word which you think is applicable in real life4.Jotting down a little extract of the pasage that you found the word in5. Following up the word and using it in real life, also involves thorough revision.Doing the above step for lets say 5 words everyday, will enhance your vocabulary effectively. I have also included a follow up action to be take in the research section because it is actually very important to do so. You have to go back to the words you learn before, to revise is to relearn and that is wht you need to do.Also, if you dont have much time in giving your GRE, I would recommend the following method.Steps to learn new words in effective manner  1.Pickup reading material that excites you let it be newspaper, books, novels or whatever.  2. Mark the words that you find foreign and jot them down. 3. Try to identify the roots of the words. 4. Later try to find the meaning of these words on your own in terms of the context you read and literal meaning in dictionary.  Now to learn the roots I would suggest you to refer to book by “Norman Lewis” called “Word power made easy”. But just learning the roots is not enough you need to learn its application and for that I suggest you to download the app VOLT – Vocabulary Learning Technique. And it is made by IIT and IIM alumni; the app has many great features that will help you.   Some of them are,   1.Pictorial representation of the word ( In the sense it can be used ) explained correct meaning 2.Provision of synonym and antonyms of every word, its usage in sentence , pronunciation of the word in both verbal track and written (break down of the word) .  3. The app has numerous words which can be learnt and are used in our day to day lives.  4. If you are going to give your GRE exam in 2-3 months then this app is bible for you, as in less time you will be able to learn the most probable words that could be asked in you exam   The App provides with pictures that represent the word. Visual representation leaves maximum impression on our brain and hence makes it very easy to learn new words.  But the best usage of VoLT can only be taken if you practice the words regularly in your daily life and apply them as much as you can. Else it’s just mugging up words that will lead you nowhere.   The above mentioned technique will not only help you in your GRE only but also will bean indispensible tool in preparation of your TOEFL exam. I have seen people prepare for their TOEFL in just 2 days and score 100+, but this is a very risky method to follow and isonly suitable for people who have given their GRE as they have already worked on their English skills.Make sure to check out our app VOLT on Google play store. It now has over 1.1 lakh downloads and has amazing cool features that will make your verbal section easy and interestingVoLT: Vocabulary Learning Technique , helps student prepare for Verbal and Vocabulary section of competitive exam.Link for download VoLT - Vocabulary Learning - Android Apps on Google Play







When I first took the GRE PowerPrep II test and scored 155 in the verbal I was devastated. With only 3 months to go, there was no way I could score 165+ which I needed to get admitted to a prestigious Master’s in International relations program. I also had a friend that scored 158 in the verbal section and was aiming to go to a prestigious CS school (UC Berkeley) who felt that his scores were not high enough. So we started studying different word lists from CrunchPrep, Manhattan, Kaplan and Magoosh. But one day a friend of a friend who aced the verbal section (170 verbal) told us not to study those lists because only a few of these words appear on the GRE. He said the ETS test makers repeat words they asked years ago and we should study from 1500 high frequency list word. He said that was how he scored so high on the verbal. So we trusted him and started studying from that material. And we both scored very high on the verbal section I scored 168 and my friend scored 170! All thanks to a good friends advice.GRE Word Lists : Learn 1500 essential GRE words







Universities look at a candidates complete profile. Let’s take your case as an example since you have done a great job in providing most of your details. What do universities look at when evaluating a profile:Quantitative scores: Grades, GRE scores etc. Your latest grade, 67% in BE, is an average score. Your GRE score, all sections are on the lower side. For MS in any engineering or science program, universities place importance on Quants, then AW, then verbal. So score above 163–165 on Quants, at least 4.0 on AW and above the minimum required for verbal (which should be listed on the universities website) or at the very least 1 standard deviation below the average (some universities list average scores instead of minimum). I recommend reading GRE Scores - The Good, Bad and Ugly for in depth insights on GRE scores.Ranking of your bachelor’s university: A 60% in IIT is valued much more than 90% in a Sido Kanhu Murmu University type university.SOP: This is the heart of your application. A well written statement can get you into your top choice university. A well-thought out SOP has the following qualities:Unique. It has to be about you. Your story, your goals, your personality should shine through, reasons why you want to apply to this particular university etc. Uniqueness gives rise to…Authenticity. Be genuine. Don’t make up stories or challenges you overcame. Authenticity also comes from…Depth. When thinking about your goals, the reasons you want to apply to a university, focus on depth. The more you think about reasons for each and every decision, the more authentic it will be. Keep asking yourself questions. Don’t settle on an answer till you’re satisfied with it. Get to the point where no one can break through your reasoning for any decision. With depth comes…Specifics. Answer each question with details. If you can’t answer a question, research. Find out why you want to go to a particular university or why you want to apply to a particular degree. Write out specifics in…Simple, effective language. There’s no need for eloquent literature or Shakespearean English. Keep it simple, clear and easily understandable while also being…To the point. Don’t beat around the bush. Write crisp sentences, get your point across quickly and move on to the next point.I have a detailed blog post about the must haves in your statement of purpose.LOR: Just like a restaurant has to have great reviews before you eat there, so do you to get into a good university. It seems that you have this covered.With all this in mind (and without reading your SOP), I think USF, ASU and Northeastern are safe choices. You’re on the borderline for UF and UTD.Good luck!Edit:Additionally, a score of 302 for your GRE is on the lower side. Your best bet is to increase your GRE scores above 310 or 315.I’ve captured this sentiment in depth here! Enjoy!







Thanks for A2AA GRE score of 302 can take you places...maybe not the Ivy Leagues and the top 10 grad-schools, but places nonetheless!What Universities Can I Target with GRE: 300-310?To start with, here are a few of the ‘achievable’ universities you can target with a GRE score in the range of 300-310:Texas A&M KingsvilleSUNY BuffaloSUNY Stony BrookUT-DallasUT-ArlingtonSJSUThe University of Louisiana - LafayetteIllinois Institute of Technology - ChicagoRochester Institute of TechnologyUniversity of HoustonDownload GRE Cutoff scores for top 35 US Universities hereBut does this mean you can’t target the TOP 25 with your score?GRE score requirements are not concrete, and there are several instances of students who land above-average or top admits, despite a GRE score not even close to the university average score of admitted students. We’ll analyze a few of those profiles at the end, so if that’s what you’re looking for, just scroll to the bottom of the answer!Let’s now find out how good a 300-310 GRE score is in terms of both percentiles and required GRE scores of some popular programs.Is 302 a Good Score?The truth is, the universities don’t look at your total GRE score, but the individual scores obtained in the Verbal, Quant, and even the AWA section - though it’s marked separately. Hence, how good your score is, depends on these factors:Your Verbal & Quants percentile scoresThe GRE score required for that program/university.Checkout our eBOOK on 5 Techniques to score 170 in QuantsLet’s talk percentiles. Percentiles are a measure of what percentage of other GRE takers have a score lower than you. Hence, the higher your percentile, the better your chances!ETS, the organization that conducts the GRE calculates percentiles separately for Verbal, Quant, and AWA.As you mentioned, you have a 144 and 158 on your Verbal and Quants section respectively.Take a look at your individual score percentiles below (source: ETS)Decoding the Data - What matters more for you?Broadly speaking you need a higher score on the section more closely related to your field. STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics) Courses like Computer Science, in your case, place more emphasis on a higher Quants percentile whereas Ph.D. courses in thesis-based subjects often require a higher verbal score!Noticed how the Verbal percentiles are higher than Quant percentiles throughout?The difference between verbal and quants scores is especially more pronounced in countries such as India where more students score better in the Quants section owing to a higher priority given to developing mathematical skills coupled with the engineering background that most test-takers share! Thus, to get a higher Quants percentile, you’d need a higher Quants score than Verbal!Aiming for a high Quants Score? Then Download GRE Quant Formula Book for a perfect 170 ScoreWhat is a Good Percentile?Roughly speaking, any score above the 50% mark is considered good, with a percentile above 70% considered excellent!This means, a score of 151 or more on Verbal and 153 or more in Quant is considered good. Anything below that and it means that most test-takers scored higher than you.Given the fact that your Quants score is 158, and you’re applying to a STEM course, you’re already at an advantage - with your score being higher than almost 70% of test takers!Now, coming to what you really wanted to know…What is the BEST you can target with your score?Your admits are only as good as your profile is - of which your GRE is JUST one part!The internet is jam-packed with the score requirements of universities and the average GRE scores of students admitted.But does that mean that these boundaries are set in stone? Definitely not!There are several instances of students who land above-average or top admits, despite a GRE score that’s even close to the average score of admitted students.You can also get into some very prestigious universities by applying to niche courses, or having skills that aren’t really commonplace. Applying to universities with a large intake like say, SJSU or USC helps too!So what else do the universities consider? Your CGPA, Resume (your academic credentials, work experience, internships, and paper publications), SOP and LORs, to name some!Want to evaluate your profile? Evaluate hereTo illustrate the above, let's take a look at 3 students with very different profiles and career goals who enrolled for admission counseling at GREedge, with GRE scores between 300-305, AND the admits they got.Profile 1:Arushi Patro:Texas A&M University College Station (Ranked #14 among Top US Universities)MS in Electrical Engineering_________________________GRE Score: 301 (Quant: 153, Verbal: 148, AWA: 3.5)College GPA: 8.8TOEFL: 105 / 120Work Experience: 0Internships/Training: Yes (Industrial training at Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) on telecom infrastructure & broadband networking)Additional Profile Positives: Was the student coordinator at the International Conference on Microelectronics, Electromagnetics, and Telecommunication (ICMEET)With the average GRE score of students at TAMU being 316 (V: 152, Q: 164), how did Arushi manage to get accepted with a score of 301?Here’s taking a look at her profile positives:Her GPA and TOEFL scores definitely worked in her favor, as did her training at BSNL and work as a student coordinator at ICMEET (in capacities directly related to her chosen MS course)Along with this, proper planning of her admission process and a strong SOP demonstrating her interest to shine in the field of electrical engineering gave her profile the final push it needed to obtain an admit!How to write a winning SOP? Checkout hereProfile 2:Rishabh Bhardwaj:Northeastern University (Ranked #37 among Top US Universities)MS in Engineering Management (Departement of Mechanical Engineering)_________________________GRE Score: 303 (Quant: 157, Verbal: 146, AWA: 3)College GPA: 7.38IELTS: 7.5 band overallWork Experience: Trainee at ITC (Worked on Industrial Management of Tobacco Processing by Implementing Inventory Control)Additional Profile Positives:Worked on developing a MATLAB simulation for speed control of a motor using fuzzy logicWorked independently on implementing an ‘Object Sorting Mechanism’ using ArduinoEarned certifications in LabVIEW and Embedded SystemsNow, despite a GRE score of 303, and an average GPA, he was able to get into a highly competitive stream at one of the Top 50 universities.Once again, relevant training, certifications and niche skills like knowledge of using the Arduino computing platform were profile positives that helped him secure his admit.A strong SOP and a perfectly planned admissions timeline helped too!Profile 3:Ravindra:Northeastern University (Ranked #37 among Top US Universities)MS in MIS (Management Information Systems)_________________________GRE Score: 303 (Quant: 161, Verbal: 142, AWA: 3)College GPA: 5.78 (13 backlogs)TOEFL: 80 / 120If you’re thinking how he possibly managed to get accepted to NEU, well, there’s a lot more to Ravindra than his scores!Here’s a sneak peek into the positives his profile had!Work Experience:Worked in a newspaper and magazine business, managing the distribution of magazines and articles, handling the company’s accounts, and overseeing the work done by employees, all of which helped him develop strong skills in management, conflict resolution & communication.Completed a PG certification in Java to develop expertise in RDBMS, MySQL, Core and Advanced Java, Spring, Hibernate, PHP, and C++, among other programming languages.Joined a startup as a PHP coder where he developed a website for users to sell scrap materials and other products to be recycled, completely online. This helped him garner experience in website development and build expertise in technologies such as PHP and MySQLThese are pretty enterprising ventures for a student to take on, and the admissions council too felt the same way.Proper presentation of your skills and profile positives on your Statement of Purpose can go a long way in helping you overcome the weaknesses in your profile.Of course, all this translated into multiple MS admits to the stream of choice!Making the best of what you’ve got:To sum it all up, your GRE score of 302 can do much more for you than you thought.If retaking your GRE is not an option, there are a lot of other things you can do to bolster your chances of getting to your dream universities!Work on building your strengths in other aspects of your profile, go get that certification you’ve always wanted, take up an internship in your field of interest - all of these can really add up and give your profile a boost!Shortlist your favorite universities well in advance and do some research about the kind of students they’re looking for, and apply to those that you feel are the best fit for your profile!Download our eBOOK on The SELECT Strategy to Shortlist UniversitiesLastly, don’t forget to document all that you’ve done in your resume and SOPs, along with telling the universities just how much you deserve an admit given your interests & career aspirations!Here’s wishing you the very best with your applications and I hope you get the admits you’ve always wanted!







Ruili, both the verbal and quantitative GRE scores have a range from 130 to 170 - average 150. So the combined average is 300. Thus 302 is a shade above average. In my opinion it would not, by itself, gain you entry to a good school for a Master's in CS. Sorry!  But are you not rather late for admission in the Fall of 2015? Best wishes.On another point which applies to many QUORA questions, see below on the confidentiality of GRE scores. All GRE score users should be aware of the confidential nature of the scores and agree to maintain their confidentiality. Institutional policies should be developed to ensure that confidentiality is maintained. For example, GRE scores should not be placed on documents sent outside the institution.







Have put the GRE scores of different students who recently got admitted in USA universities who has less than 315 GRE scores, Reference was taken from going through the interviews of current students from ConnectBud BlogWebsite: ConnectBud(Dedicated to help ONE Million Students by 2020!)Wilmington University: 287Oakland University, Michigan: 290California State University, Sacramento:293California State University, Long Beach:293Illinois State University, Chicago:293Texas A&M University, Corpus Christi:293Texas A&M University, Kingsville:293Texas University, San Marcos: 298University of Houston, California State University, University of Tampa, University of Florida,New Jersey Institute of Technology:300







For most of the universities, there is no cut off for GRE. The admissions committee will consider both GRE and GPA for granting admission. It depends from university to university. Some universities consider GPA score and some universities consider GRE and have cutoff scores. GPA determines how good you are in your academics in your bachelor degree. GRE scores determine your verbal, quantitative and Analytical skills.Admission of a student to the university doesn’t depend on GRE along, but also an effective statement of purpose also adds value for considering admission criteria.Most of the universities don’t look at the overall GRE score but they consider individual scores.How good GRE score of 302 depends on two aspects. What kind of GRE score your program wants. Each program in the university has different requirement of GRE scores.It also considers what individual percentile you have scored on verbal and quantitative.When we take percentile into consideration, it tells what percentage of the test takers score below your score on the individual section. If you have higher percentile you will have more competition and chances of getting considered for admissions. This percentile is considered when you are taking a particular program. You should score higher in a particular GRE section that is related to your program. Individual portions of GRE are scored between 130 - 170. If you have GRE score of 302, you can individual scores as (Verbal: 150, Quantitative: 152 or Verbal: 152, Quantitative: 150, Verbal: 151, Quantitative: 151, Verbal: 148, Quantitative: 154 etc.)If you have a GRE score of 302, you can get admission into some good universities.Northwest Missouri State UniversityWright State UniversityAuburn UniversityMontana State University – BillingWest Virginia State UniversityState University of New York – AlbanyUniversity of CincinnatiArkansas State UniversityCalifornia State University, Riverside Ext & ESLMontana State University – BozemanUniversity of Nevada-RenoUniversity of Houston-Clear LakeNorthwest Missouri State UniversityGrand Valley State UniversityKent State UniversityUniversity of Arkansas at Little RockUniversity of Colorado DenverUniversity of New HavenUniversity of Central MissouriUniversity of North FloridaUniversity of Michigan FlintUniversity of St. ThomasKansas State UniversityUniversity of North DakotaNorthwestern UniversityGeorgia Institute of TechnologyUniversity of Texas AustinUniversity of Maryland- College ParkTexas A&M UniversityUniversity of Michigan, Ann ArborNorthern Illinois UniversityOklahoma City UniversityNorthern Kentucky UniversityUniversity of Texas, ArlingtonStony Brook UniversityFor more universities that accept GRE score of 302, you can find here.Hope you find this useful.







A Score above 325 can get you into Excellent universities. 315 - 325 will get admission from above average US Universities. 300-315 Score for Average Universities. Most of the universities don't mention the GRE Cut off scores except a few. Check university websites for information. Having above Cut off limit won't guarantee admission.Follow the below table to know the universities suitable for your GRE Profile.Revised GRE Universities for GRE > 300US Universities for GRE Score Range 301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308Texas Tech University www.ttu.edu, Wayne State University www.wayne.edu, California State University, Sacramento www.csus.edu, Missouri State University www.missouristate.edu, New Mexico State University www.nmsu.edu, North Dakota State University www.ndsu.edu, University of Texas-Arlington www.uta.edu, Clarkson University www.clarkson.edu, Wright State University www.wright.edu, University of Tennessee Chattanooga www.utc.edu, University of Tulsa www.utulsa.edu, Portland state university www.pdx.edu, University of Vermont www.uvm.edu Baylor University, Texas www.baylor.edu Villanova University www.villanova.edu University of Tampa www.utampa.edu Louisiana Tech. University www.latech.edu New Jersey Institute of Technology www.njit.edu Idaho State University www.isu.edu Wichita State University www.wichita.edu University of Mississippi www.olemiss.edu Northeastern University www.northeastern.edu Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville www.siue.edu University of Alaska- Fairbanks www.uaf.edu Pace University, NY www.pace.edu Wright State University www.wright.edu Chicago State University www.csu.edu South Dakota State University www.sdsu.edu East Carolina University www.ecu.edu University of North Texas www.unt.edu SUNY Institute of Technology www.sunyit.edu University of Missouri at St Louis www.umsl.eduUniversity of Northern Iowa www.uni.edu University of Toledo www.utoledo.edu University of Illinois at Springfield www.uis.eduOld Dominion University, Virginia www.odu.edu THE LIST GOES ON AND ON. REF:http://www.msinus.com/content/gr...







There are three main factors that decide when you ought to take the GRE:The preparation time, which is around 2-3 months. Anything more won't be as effective, as you'll start forgetting things.The fact that test scores are valid for 5 years.Your course load and other responsibilities.[2] eliminates first year, since you always want to account for the possibility that you might actually want to work for a couple of years before applying to colleges.[3] eliminates second year, late third year and early final year. Second year is the time when you are exposed to the core concepts of your branch, and you would want to spend as much time on these as you can. Towards the end of third year, people try to take up mini-projects with professors that could help them get good letters of recommendation or even publications. And the summer after third year, you're busy with internships hoping to bag PPOs. Now, early final year is a decent time if you have already got a PPO or are not going to sit for placements at all. But neither of these are things that the average student can know for sure in advance. And the more you postpone the test date, the closer you are to overshooting deadlines. So I would advise people to give their exam much before that.Ideal timeNon-CS/IT branches (with little hope of bagging on-campus internships early in the 5th semester) can give it at the start of 3rd year. This is a good time as not many people do intensive internships after 2nd year, and therefore can dedicate two months of prep time at home to it, and then give it either right before coming to college or 2-3 weeks after.CS/IT people - July/August of third year gets taken away by internship tests and interviews. September, midsems. Two months later, you have endsems. So, what I would suggest is to go home for the winter break, study properly for a month there. Come back to college, and prepare in January as well. And then give GRE in the February of your 6th semester. That's what I did.Of course, this comes with the caveat that there is no ideal time unless you are in the right frame of mind. But I do think these dates are pretty much the best time as they let you focus on the test and prepare for it without other tensions.Note: Two common fallacies are that the GRE gets more difficult in July-August, and that you score higher if you give it outside India. There are absolutely no conclusive studies to confirm either of the two.You can read more about GRE prep in general here.







The right time to write GRE will depend upon which admission term you are applying for, commonly there are two such terms viz. fall and winter.The fall semester typically starts around mid August, applications for which are opened in September of the previous year and and remains open till December/January (suppose you are applying to 2018 fall term, the application process will start from September 2017).The spring term applications process usually start from July/August of the previous year and continues up to November at the latest.When you write the GRE it takes about 7–10 days for you to receive the official scores which you can send to universities. It is advisable to thoroughly go through the admission procedure of your chosen universities so that you are well aware of the deadlines.From my personal experience I’d suggest the latest you can write the GRE if you are applying to fall term is early November. If you are applying to spring term then you should write it considerably earlier. You can always write the GRE and wait a year or two before you actually apply to universities, the “right time” then becomes immaterial.Do keep in mind that the application has also other components to it such as transcripts, recommendation letters, SOP, hence it is always better to keep in hand a few buffer days so that you can complete all the application materials on time.Best of luck!







Every person is different. The right time to take the GRE is when it is right for YOU Consider the relevant factors that will affect when you will take the test, and plan from there. For most people who are still in college, the best time to take the GRE is sometime between the spring semester of their 1st year and the fall semester of their Final year. At the very least, make sure that you give yourself adequate time to prepare for the test (at least a couple of months) and plan for the possibility that you may want to retake it if things don’t go perfectly.A better approach would be to wait until you have a couple of years of college under your belt. Make the decision to take the GRE once you are confident that graduate school is your next career move. If you plan on attending graduate school either immediately or nearly immediately after graduating from college, then taking the test during your 1st year is ideal. If you’re looking to get a few years of professional experience under your belt before heading to graduate school, then taking the test during your final year might make more sense: you’ll still have five years to make the decision to return to school before you have to take the GRE again.When During the Year Should You Take the Test?Because the GRE is offered year round at Pro-metric(TM) test centers, there is no need to sign up for a test date months in advance. In determining the right time to take the GRE, check your academic schedule — you don’t want to take the test during your busiest semester, as both your test results and your GPA will suffer. Instead, try to find a way to lighten the load for a semester and use the extra hours to prepare for the GRE. Alternatively, if you have a light summer, use those months to prepare for and take the test then.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark in the field of GRE Coaching because of it’s rigor and for the individual attention given to each & every student. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.VijayAlumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT]







Hello Reader!!The right time to take up GRE has to definitely be in connection with the intake you plan to go for.So say for example if your same doubt is at the present time and you wish to go for the Fall 2018 (Sept’18) then this is the ideal time to start with your preparation. Generally two months time is sufficient but, if you are just starting with the preparation and aiming for a good score then you need to prepare for atleast 3 months.This way you would have prepared yourself well and can easily take the exam somewhere by Jan mid or end.Why i am saying this because once you receive your scores, you can start with the application process. Normally the colleges start taking applications from Feb/March so you will be just in time for the complete process.







Admissions to colleges are split into the Spring Intake (around Jan - Feb) and the Fall Intake (August-Sept). Application deadlines vary according to the institute. Ideally you should take up the exam at least a month before the deadlines. This will leave you with enough time to write out your application essays.If you are applying to multiple colleges I would suggest you to take the exam earlier in order to do justice to each application. In case you are looking for scholarships it is advisable to apply in the Fall Intake as your probability of getting scholarships would be higher.Hope this was helpful! All the best!For further information on GRE visit : GRE Prep Courses - Classroom, Online, Personal Coaching | CrackVerbal







If you are a final year student then the good time is before 20 September because most of the colleges in the USA start their application procedure by 5th of October so you will have a descent time after your GRE to get your profile and Application ready. Also, you have to take TOEFL and IELTS so try to complete the GRE by mid September atleast.If you are a first/second/third year then I will say finish up your GRE before your final year starts because you will have a considerable amount of time to think and prepare your SOP, LOR and Applications. Which is equally important to your GRE score.







Byju’s is the leading app based study provider. They uphold the mark of self-learning with the fusion of technological advancements. Byju’s GRE test prep course is developed focussing the needs of the students and working professionals who possess a will to study abroad and enhance the career graph. Byju’s GRE prep has been divided into three steps and contain the following features:For Beginners: The beginners signify the group of students or freshers who want to start prepping for GRE right after their graduation or in the initials of their employment. Byju’s offers the distinct study material for beginners which includes:(i) Comprehensive lectures in a guided format to give you end-to-end guidance(ii) High quality webinar classes by the international test expert PN Santosh who is a 338 scorer in GRE.(iii) Class room teaching facility is offered to the college students by the talented faculties. The aim of the classes is to identify the weak nerves of the aspirants, resolve the query and guide them to secure a good score of 320+ in GRE test.For Intermediaries: The intermediaries defines the group of those aspirants who initiated the preparation but got stuck in amid. For those Byju’s offers the distinct study material which includes:(i) An adaptive question bank with analysis to help you narrow down your GRE preparation.(ii) Focus only on your shaky areas and build your level up from there by revisiting lectures in those areas.(iii) Experience the unique Diagnostic Tool Kit(DTK), a software that analyses your performance, gives you feedback and suggests the remedial steps to be taken to rectify the flaws.For Seasoned Students: This refers to those aspirants who are ready to attempt the test, yet they have some areas of doubts which are needed to be resolved. Byju’s caters the query of the aspirants by providing:(i) A Library of 1000+ practice questions entirely based on the GRE exam pattern.(ii) Complete analysis of your weak areas and detailed feedback explaining the reason behind the committed mistakes.(iii) Take help of the test Analyzer to get accustomed with the GRE exam pattern and score.Before selecting the test prep guides, download the Byju’s learning App and watch the videos or sign-up for the 7-days course trial.







If you are looking for online coaching, I would suggest you to take Magoosh as its level matches with GRE. No one has ever complained that Magoosh is not worth the money. Byju’s is a good option but I would you suggest you to go for Magoosh.If you just want to start your preparation, watch videos on topNotch tutorials channel on youtube. They have most basic concepts of quants covered in their channel.Here is the link of their first video:After watching this series, I would suggest you to start with Magoosh subscription and words. And then Manhattan 5lb book for quants.All the best for your preparation!







For me Quant Section was not a problem. The real obstacle was to ace the Verbal Section. And I feel BYJUS helped me get a score of 329 (Q:170, V:159) in GRE.I was impressed by the specific techniques they have developed for confronting every type of question in Verbal Section. They claim they have come up with those techniques & formulas based on a lot of research on the past few years of GRE questions.I only went through the Verbal material, not so much for Quant, so here is my experience of the material provided.BYJUS provide video tutorials for each & every type of question one can face in the Verbal Section. They have divided the set of verbal questions in the GRE syllabus into different categories and subcategories. They first teach how to identify the category & more importantly the subcategory of a question. Next they teach how to approach each of those subcategories. After certain set of videos have passed, there are some practice questions and there is a solution with complete analysis for each and every question.After all the tutorials, there are time based tests (all difficulty levels) for each category. You will also find complete verbal tests which imitate the format found in GRE tests. In total there are enough questions for your practice. And each question comes with a solution which is inline with their theory.Initially its not easy to solve questions and that too in time, using their technique. But after enough practice I think their method is extremely effective in obtaining good verbal scores.They also provide access to Membean Software, which I think is a great resource for expanding your vocabulary, not just for GRE but also for daily life. I found it to be very addictive and effective in building my vocabulary.Its important to note that first you should build a decent level of vocabulary before attempting the Text Completion & Sentence Equivalence questions of the verbal section.Depending on one’s initial level in the verbal section, one may take anything between a month and six months to prepare properly for GRE. But it would be best to have at least 2 to 3 months in your bag if going with BYJUS.So, if you are just starting to prepare for the first time to crack GRE and have ample time with you, then I would strongly recommend going with BYJUS. But if you are looking to get some fast track course to practice for a month or so towards GRE, then I wouldn’t recommend BYJUS.







You can know it yourself. Byjus is the only one that provides a free trial for their content.Download Byjus - The Learning App on your smartphone and explore the content for free. You’d know the content is unique and in high quality that teaches you short cut techniques to solve the questions in very less time.Byjus is a perfect blend of online classes, conventional classes and one on one learning process which changes the way you approach to solve a test.Byjus Tablet Course which offers your many assistance, just like a free mentorship that lends a personalized session on your demand, a study plan according to your learning capabilities and schedule and also a review session over a period of time.Other than conventional methods of learning, it can be used according to your own convenience even if you’re at office, school or travelling to somewhere.For GRE Prep, you can improve vocabulary for GRE test with a special VOCAB tool. It also claims to help you solve tough verbal question in just 60 seconds. Also, it aids you with a Diagnostic Toolkit: which gives you complete analytics of your daily progress and performance.The best thing about Byjus is, we offer you a fair chance to make your choice. Just order a trial pack with course content for a free trial. Also, if you will not be satisfied with the Tablet Course we offer you a full refund for the same.I’d suggest you not to go by my words but explore it yourself, watch the videos online or download the app.Happy Learning :)







I don't have any personal experience with BYJU. Just try any free videos you have acess to regarding to GRE syllabus.If you are able to comprehend what they are teaching and able to solve the questions in least possible time, you may opt for a paid training.However, online coaching has its own advantages and disadvantages.Advantages:Experienced staff,Proven courses by trained content developers,Users reviews and ratings,One-to-one interaction andPersonal attention.Disadvantages:One needs to be tech savvy,Requires laptop/desktop and good internet connection,No competition with other batch mates,Physical presence of teacher brings best in you by constant monitoring and understanding your way of solving problems.







Try an understand what Byju does.They produce some videos using their Subject Matter Experts. These videos are bundled in a Tablet. These tablets are sold to Students at a Premium Cost by their Sales People.Here are some Pros & Cons related to Learning via Videos, that I answered previously.I would like to introduce you to a new & upcoming way of Learning in India. Online Coaching . It is widely popular in USA & UK.In an Online Coaching, Teacher & Student connect via an Online Classroom. Online Classroom uses Video Conferencing Technology.There is a Whiteboard where both Tutors & Students can writeBoth Tutor & Student stream LIVE VideosBoth Tutor & Student stream LIVE AudioThey can Chat with each otherHere is how an Online Classroom works:-This is a new form on Online Education coming up in India. If you are interested, check TutStuHere are some of the Benefits that TutStu offers to Students:-Here is a list of GRE Tutors displayed as per their Global Rankings







According to me the best site to prepare for GRE is Magoosh GRE Prep because they provide the best online coaching. Apart from their course, they provide many free resources like Official GRE Guide related videos and free PDFs with tips and guides using which you can prepare in short time. Also, its practice questions that are similar to the real GRE and it even has unlimited adaptive practice tests just like in real computer based exam.Take a look at above screenshot which shows feature rich dashboard. It has a very realistic and important score predictor. One can even compare their pacing to others’ pacing. Only suggested videos(Magoosh suggests videos according to your progress) are shown in dashboard. From the videos tab, you can access more than 200 video lessons. The video lessons range from basic level till advanced level for all the 3 sections (Maths, Verbal and AWA) of GRE exam. These video lessons helps you to learn/brush up the basics before you dive-into practice questions. It is especially useful for those who like to learn/brush GRE basics without reading books. Besides, you can remember better when if you see and hear(video) than just reading book. Magoosh also has 1000+ collection of questions with video explanations for each. They also give the number of questions which may appear from a given topic. This helps you to divide the practice time for each topic based on number of questions appearing from that topic. The idea is simple! Spend more time on the topics from which more questions will appear.One more advantage with Magoosh GRE prep is that it has customizing feature for Practice Sessions. This feature helps you to prepare/practice the questions according to your needs. Practice test has features as followsSelecting section ( Math / Verbal / Writing ).Choosing different subtopics in each section.Selecting difficulty level (easy, medium, hard and adaptive).Selecting the required question pool.Customizing number of questions.Practicing with or without time limit.Restricting the number of questions for a session.Quiz Mode/Practice Mode (In practice mode, video explanation will be shown after each question).The above features helped me to focus my practice on the topics which needed much more practice than others. Also, you can decide to practice more on the topics in which you are weak. You can choose to take up as much practice tests as you can until you feel comfortable with a topic.From the above screenshot you can see that one can even see the time taken to answer the question along with its difficulty level and time taken by others. It also have an onscreen calculator that is very similar to real exam. You can even flag a question so that you can review it later or start a practice test with all the flagged questions. You have an option to hide/view the on screen timer just like in a real GRE exam. Offcourse, each and every question has all the above features. If you have any doubt regarding any question, they’ll help you through email. Recently, they have also started one on one tutoring service.Magoosh has many free Apps for android and iOS phones/tablets. They also have Vocabulary, Math, Grammar and many more flashcards which can be accessed either through app or browser. They even have a Youtube channel where they upload many free video lectures and other related material links.Now, to learn vocabulary you can take the help of mnemonics. By using mnemonics, I was able to remember the complex words better. You can visit Mnemonic Dictionary as it has meanings along with mnemonics for many words. A screen shot of Mnemonic Dictionary can be found below.I would also like to mention that Magoosh Flashcards and many more resources are completely free. However, they also have a free 7 days trial (Free trial option will be just below premium plans) for online coaching using which you can try their amazing service for free. So, you can buy their service only if you are pleased with their service(I’m sure you will be pleased).All the best for your GRE!! :)







It has been seen some renowned coaching are not fetching good score to all of their students. So it would be wrong to say that take admission in particular coaching institute and you will get good score. There are many factors that determine the score of an individual. In order to decide which one is best just look at the following points -Interact with the faculty and take demo so that you could be able to make sure that how your class would be.Look at Your problems vis-i -vis strength of the trainer.Understand whether he is being to convince you .Flexibility of the institution.And authenticity of its material.Your comfortability with the other externalities.best of luck…!!







I had recently took GRE exam and I had followed an YouTube channel “Perfect Scores” Quant section and I got it pretty well score just by preparing for one day max.Verbal section: Do follow Magoosh apps for verbal.P.S: These are apps suggested by me. There may be even better apps.







As others have already said, Magoosh Online Test Prep is a fantastic resource. Make sure you use all the resources like their blog, ebooks & study plans, all of which are completely free.    If you are willing to pay, consider the premium plan. It's totally worth it and costs only half as much as the coaching institutes.   Also, any other material you want to study can be downloaded from the net for free. All the best!







Magoosh- Magoosh Online GRE Prep is a great sitebefore you sign up, make sure that you are in dire need of coaching for gre.May be you can nail it with self study and a few practice tests. Go through the test pattern and a few mock tests before you sign up.







I prepared for a week and got 314 in GRE. A complete online program with vocabulary building, Practice tests (sectional and complete). Each and every question is explained well via video tutorial and also offer email support. To add to that they also offer suggestions and tips for the test day and time management for covering the course according to your need and available time, which builds confidence and stress free preparation. I think these guys are great. You won’t need anything after this. Magoosh GREMagoosh Online GRE PrepMagoosh GMATOnline GMAT Prep and Practice Questions with Video TutorialsMagoosh SATOnline SAT Prep and Practice Questions with Video TutorialsMagoosh TOEFLOnline TOEFL Prep and Practice Questions with Video Tutorials







Anybody can score 330+ in GRE. I followed a 3 week preparation plan.It is important to understand that the GRE is very different as compared to the other exams we are used to giving, talking from an Indian’s perspective. Blind hard work will not serve any purpose and sometimes will be counterproductive.ETS (the company that conducts the GRE) wants to convince you that your score is a measure of how good you are at ‘critical thinking’, but in reality it is only a measure of how good you are at giving the GRE. So, fortunately for us, the more you practise in the correct way, the better you become at giving the GRE.The Correct Way (in my experience) :Quality > Quantity. Always. Please do not spend 10+ hours a day mechanically solving problems and forgetting about them as you move forward. This will cause you to plateau at a certain skill level. The key is small incremental improvements.For me, the ideal way was a simple 3 step process :1.	Solve problems in small sets, around 20(+5 || -5) questions per set.2.	Check your answers. See the solutions, understand them thoroughly.3.	After checking all, recap the questions you got wrong, why, and what you learnt from them. This is extremely important.Let’s jump into the schedule now, shall we?Pre-prep phase (1 week) :Okay, I lied, it’s not really 3 weeks, but this pre-prep phase won’t take more than two hours of your time per day, and what’s more, you can easily do this while you eat or just before sleeping.What is to be done? Words, Words and more Words.Spend this week learning the words from the following apps :1.	Barron’s 11002.	Magoosh Flash Cards (around 1000 words)3.	Manhattan Essential Words (around 500 words)Vocabulary is essential to understanding the Reading Comprehensions as well as the sentence completions, so please complete this before moving ahead!Week 1 :Congratulations! The boring part is done. This week, let’s do :1.	4 Practice Tests2.	Practise each type of question in isolation. For example, do 20 Text Completions in one set. This will help you to identify weaknesses to work on.3.	Brush up all the shortcuts and maths formulae that you encounter.(Online Magoosh article exists)Week 2 :This week, let’s move forward with :1.	6 Practice Tests.2.	Do mixed practice sets now (All types of problems together), to simulate the actual GRE scenario.3.	Strictly time your tests and practice sets. Keep 5 minutes per section as a buffer. Identify which type of questions you are slow at. Work on them.Week 3 :Buckle up, this is your final lap :1.	8 practice tests.2.	Start reading AWA essays online, as well as general structuring tips. A lot of video material is available online. Practise a few essays if necessary.3.	Revise the Vocabulary words and mathematical formulae.At the end of this schedule, you should be ready to face the GRE. So be confident, sleep well before the paper and ohh, don’t forget to carry a jacket. It’s freezing in there.Thanks for reading! Please do upvote if this helped you.







Hey,I have recently taken GRE for the first time on 25th August . I scored 319 with Verbal: 151 & Quant: 168. Though it is not pretty good score but I made it without any tuition classes ,just by self-preparation. So if you are taking any tuition classes then it may not be the best answer that you are looking for.I am one Electrical Engineering student so writing GRE is a whole different experience for me than a student of Arts or Economics.If you do belong to Engineering or Science background then it may not be a hurdle for you to get 165+ in Quant section.For Quant section I only followed ETS Official Guide . It has lots of good examples which literally can help you gain clear idea about GRE maths. So first start with this book , study and solve all the problems in Maths Review Section. GRE maths are basic maths from class 9 or 10. So you will find no uncommon topic but only one. That’s a chapter containing concepts of SD , ND ,Percentile .For that Magoosh will provide a great support. GRE Math: Percentiles and Quartiles - Magoosh GRE Blog .Now for Verbal section you have to plan a schedule. For general students of Science background have problems in Verbal section. For that generally people start to remember as many words possible. But here I will suggest not to go for Barron’s 3500 or Nova’s 4000. As these all were quite helpful for OLD GRE. Revised GRE does not test your stock of words rather it tests your ability to use and understand the context of quite normal words. Here for that a list of 1000 words will play a great role. Generally Magoosh’s 1000 is recommended but you don’t even have to complete 1000 words just do Common and Basic words and ignore Advance Words.If you are having more than 2 months then start to remember the words as soon as possible because you have to revise them everyday . Start to remember 20–30 words a day. Then try to use all these words in daily conversation or text writing . Your friends may end up calling you a scumbag think that you are showing you vocab stock but believe me it literally gonna help you a lot. If you do minimum 25 words a day you will complete all Common and Basic Words (650) in 25 days.If you have a strong vocab you can easily score good in SE & TC section. Now you have to go for RC & CR practice. For this you can always go with Manhattan 5lb. book but make sure you are not taking this book as a level of GRE just because some of the questions in RC section are way too easy where some can be real pain . Questions are not distributed properly.But still it has lots of good passages which gonna help you a lot to build you reading habit if you already are not a avid reader like me :) Manhattan book’s SE and TC section is way too vague as it collects all the rough and obsolete words from dictionary and put them in a question. So you may not find any confidence solving this.So summing up the whole point start preparing for GRE with remembering words from Magoosh List or Magoosh flashcard app. Then go for RC and CR.Last thing is writing Mock Tests. There are lots of test available most of them are free. But make sure you are not writing any irrelevant test as it either gonna hinder your confidence or gonna over estimate your scores. Start with ETS power prep 1 followed by some 5–6 other test and end this rally of exams with ETS power prep 2 .For AWA section write few Arguments and Issues from ETS pool . And to create your strategy read as many as AWA possible from GRE SAT LSAT GED TOEFL MCAT ACT IELTS GMAT Test PrepGRE is not at all a tough exam I cracked it with 20 days attentive preparation.I was blessed that I never needed to solve maths .But the main thing is practice. I regret not practicing much verbal questions from books . You please don’t run the same mistake.Hope this helps :)







Firstly, there is nothing as “clearing GRE” …. There is no pass or fail. What you have to make sure is you get good enough score that can get you admitted in your favourite university. Generally, a score above 320/340 is qualified as a good score, and 330+ will make sure you get into the best colleges (provided the other parts of your application are similarly strong).Now coming to the question of “how”. Make sure you have enough time on your hand for preparation (6-8 months: for a steady preparation).Quantitative section, take a look at ETS Math review, it will help you recap all the concepts you need to make clear to get a good enough score. Scoring 166+ in quants is not a tough task, provided you are good at maths and you have had enough timed practice. For practice, you can try the Manhattan 5lb book, it has innumerable sums.Cracking the verbal section is a tough task, but you can really make it up if you devote enough time. Read story books, of old authors (not the new ones!), it will help you a lot in your vocabulary and usage. Read newspapers, editorial columns, it will definitely help you in understanding RC's (reading comprehension). A knowledge of etymology never hurts, so you may as well complete “Word power made easy” by Norman Lewis (trust me! It helps). Magoosh flashcards are equally important, you need not mug up all the 1100+ words, but having a fair idea of the words helps. Use kaplan gre general test workbook, it will give you all kinds of tips and tricks, as well as some very helpful vocabulary insight (in the appendix section). And finally, practice and practice. Same as quants, Manhattan 5lb book provides lots of practice. Kaplan will cover your analytical writing part, it's very helpful.As ETS conducts gre, have a good look at the study materials ETS provides, those will be the closest to your actual gre questions.GRE and TOEFL scores are not the only criteria for admission. Make your academic profile strong.For starters, decide which colleges you want to apply, how much average score they need, 320+ is what most colleges keep a check at. After that, schedule your mock tests. (One of the most important parts, which you should not skip). Give the mock by Crunchprep, 30–45 days before your GRE, and see where you stand. Remember once your start giving mocks, it means you are past all the preparation period, this your time to do last minute improvements in the topics you are weak. Give the mock tests by Manhattan, really helpful, will be a bit discouraging, but will motivate you to work harder. Keep the PowerPrep for last 10 days, and try to give them with as calm mindset as you would be giving actual GRE. These two tests will have the closest relevance in terms of difficulty, to your actual exam. Generally, you can expect atleast average of these two scores in your actual exam (provided you give your best shot).And finally, if you haven't made any decision yet, this is the time, buckle up, start your preparations.All The Best!!







Thanks for A2A.To begin with the answer I would like to re-frame your question. Passing the GRE should not be your aim. Think of nailing it. So the first rule is be positive and honest to yourself. Be positive in your approach.Now, coming to how you can nail it. Well it’s pretty simple to sound and even simpler to execute. Sounds ridiculous isn’t it!! Please follow each of the below process as I take you through the alleys to success.Firstly, do a quick fact check. Give one mock from ETS. Test your level where you are lacking and keep in mind that’s the worst possible thing to happen. You will rise from here on.Once the Q&A session of introspection is over its work time. I am assuming you are novice in both the aspects of GRE viz Quant and Verbal and got the least score in the Mock I suggested. Start with Quant and Verbal simultaneously.Verbal Reasoning: Download the Magoosh app and start preparing the Vocab from there. You can also refer to the Barron’s GRE high frequency words. Look for grammar a bit. The book High School Grammar by Wren and Martin comes quite handy.Quantitative Aptitude: Although there are many books available in the market, I will recommend you to take NCERT Maths Text book for class 7 and 8. Brush up all the concepts,practice few sums from every chapter. Wondering of class 7 and 8 !! Trust me they are the best resources and GRE Quant is that much easy.Analytical Writing: Practice writing on several writing tasks. For topics you may refer to YouTube. There are lots of good stuffs over there. Consult some person who has command over English to get your essays checked.Once you are done with it, now it’s Official ETS Book time. Take that book out solve all the practice questions provided there using a timer in front of you. Soon you will see improvement in your performance.Last step is Mocks. Take as many mocks as you can to get accustomed to the scenario and analyze your performance properly. Make taking mocks as a habit so that the D-Day becomes cake walk for you.Last but not the least, keep in mind this is just an exam and you are competing against yourself only. Don’t allow any external factors to manipulate you. It’s should be you, your preparation and the exam.Wish you all the best. Hope it helps. Cheers!!For any further information please feel free to reach out to me.-Kush..







GRE Preparation Tips: GRE is usually the first choice of test for many students who want to pursue their master’s abroad, especially USA. But, before taking the test there could be many questions in your mind like:How difficult is the test?How to prepare for GRE?How to maximize my GRE performance?What kind of resources should I refer to?Let us have a look at the pattern of GRE General test:Verbal Reasoning(Two sections)20 questions per section30 minutes per sectionQuantitative Reasoning(Two sections)20 questions per section35 minutes per sectionAnalytical Writing(One section with two separately timed tasks)One "Analyse an Issue" task and one "Analyse an Argument" task30 minutes per taskHow to prepare for GRE Verbal reasoning:A. Learn new words: Make it a point to learn new words everyday. It is the most important GRE preparation tip. Most importantly, try and use fresh words in your sentences. It is always interesting to play with words and their formations. The exercise does not only introduce new words but also improves your vocabulary to a great extent. If you are in the look-out for new words sites like OALD and Webster can be very helpful.B. Practice Reading Comprehension: Reading Comprehension form a big chunk of the GRE paper. Hence, practice as many reading comprehensions as possible for you. Treat it like mathematics. Practice atleast two to three reading comprehensions in a day.C. Check your grammar: One of the major GRE preparation tips is that Grammar practice plays a very important part . It is not an easy task to learn all the rules of grammar. The easy way here would be to understand the basic usages and very importantly learn your tenses.Quantitative Reasoning:The quantitative reasoning section evaluates the basic mathematical skills of the test taker. You need to have knowledge of the standard mathematical concepts and their application in solving problems.The Quantitative section has two tasks with 20 question each and you will be given 35 minutes to complete each section.How to prepare for GRE Quantitative Reasoning:A. Practice elementary mathematics: If you appearing for GRE it is imperative to make sure your concepts in elementary mathematics are clear. If not, it is time to dust and open your high school books again. The main topics in this section includes Arithmetic, Algebra, Geometry and Data analysis. However, instead of direct questions relating to the topics you will be asked questions needing application of the mathematical concepts. It means the exam tests your confidence in the topic. So, make sure you have your concepts clear before you take your GRE.So, make sure you have solved enough sample papers before the GRE.B. Solve sample paper: One of the effective GRE preparation tips is to solve as many sample papers as possible. Quants is one of the trickier sections fo GRE and it is always preferable to be prepared for the kind of expected questions.C. Practice, practice and more practice: There is one thing that you have to do if you want to ace your GRE Quantitative section i.e Practice, practice and more practice. Repeat the process once you are done. The more you practice the more your concepts will be clear.Analytical WritingThis section measures two important skills of the test-taker. Firstly, your critical thing ability and secondly your analytical writing skills. There are two tasks in this section. One is the “Analyse an Issue" task and the other "Analyse an Argument" task. In the issue task you are required to analyse an issue and develop your opinion around it. In the argument task, you have to analyse an argument and present a position regarding it.How to prepare for GRE Analytical Writing:A. Read: Yes,the trick is simple. Read as much as possible. It will develop your skills in forming an opinion . There is always a way of directing an argument in a manner that is convincing and that only comes from having knowledge on any given topic.B. Practice writing: Take a topic and start writing on it. Make sure the topic is argument based as the GRE test would necessarily present topics on argument is possible. Consider these GRE preparation tips while writing:1. Which direction do you want to give your argument? 2. Jot down all points for or against the issue.3. Filter your points. Select only those points which are based on reason.4. Divide your argument into sections to make your points clear.“We should not give up and we should not allow the problem to defeat us.”All The Best!!!







Are you planning to go to abroad for higher education? If you are, you should be thinking about the GRE which is a standardized test used to get admissions in graduate schools or business school. Getting a high score on GRE is a requirement for admission.How to prepare for GRE is a question of many students today. Let us see some essential steps to ace the GRE.Understand the BasicsKnow the test structurePrepare a StrategyTake many GRE Practice testConcentrate more on GRE Quant SyllabusReview Analytical WritingTrain yourself with GRE Verbal Reasoning Practice Test.This kind of study aid can make an enormous change when test day trolls near, so make sure you take the time to practice, study, and prepare well.Good luck!







“I studied in a Telugu medium school. My English skills are just okay, and I find the GRE Verbal Reasoning section intimidating. How do I face it?”“Ever since I turned a teen, I had been force-fed on The Hindu, Reader’s Digest, and the Time. Reading is now my favorite pastime. Yet, why do I find the Verbal Reasoning section of the GRE challenging?”At and between these two extremes is where students preparing for GRE fall. In my experience of 7 years as the Co founder of GREedge and having trained 30000+ students, I have realized that the Verbal Reasoning section is no cake walk for anyone. It can be, with methodical approach and some serious practice.Let’s approach this problem backward by analyzing what exactly can be challenging in the Verbal section of GRE:The answer choices can be tricky. For most TC, SE, & RC questions, while you may easily eliminate some of the choices, you will often be left with at least two choices that are close to being the correct answer choice. Choosing the correct one among them can be challenging.You might find some of the words in the question statement or the answer choices alien to you. In SE, where you have to choose two words with similar meanings for the blanks, this can particularly be challenging.The subject of the RC passage might be unfamiliar to you. Club it with some strange vocabulary and difficult language, and you can be thrown out of gear.“Choose all that apply” type of questions in RC. Considering that you don’t get any points for partially correct answers, this can be quite a pain, if you are not prepared.The logic and reasoning that is required in solving TC triple-blank questions and the RC passage questions can be challenging.Okay, now to the solutions. How do you overcome these challenges?Start by learning the most-important GRE words, which is about 3500 in number. Remember, GRE vocab is more about context and so focus on the contexts in which the words are used. The usage statements in dictionaries will help you in this aspect.As a simple example, though the words, “inflexible” and “obdurate” are synonymous, you wouldn’t use one in place of the other, right? It would be wrong to call an “inflexible schedule” to be an “obdurate schedule,” because the word, “obdurate,” refers to someone who is not flexible since he doesn’t wish to be so. An “obdurate” person refuses to move to sensitive emotional appeals.So, the point is, focus on the contextual usage of words. A good place to understand such nuances is the “synonym discussions” in Merriam Webster dictionary.Next, read good quality newspapers and periodicals. Read on your topic of interest. To describe the technique, I would like to share my personal experience here.I just got an update on the swimming competition at Rio Olympics and here’s what I learnt out of this snippet from The Guardian:I’ve been asked by reader Olympia Diamond if we ever got to the bottom of the manky green pool situation from yesterday. Yes and no? FINA put a statement out yesterday that included the following: FINA can confirm that the reason for the unusual water color observed during the Rio diving competitions is that the water tanks ran out of some of the chemicals used in the water treatment process.“As a result, the pH level of the water was outside the usual range, causing the discoloration. The FINA Sport Medicine Committee conducted tests on the water quality and concluded that there was no risk to the health and safety of the athletes, and no reason for the competition to be affected.”The old ran-out-of-chemicals defense. The water polo pool (next door) has a tinge of green to it now as well. I sense this story has some way to run.(A quick tip: FINA is the International Swimming Federation that is authorized by the International Olympic Committee to conduct international aquatic contests.)Okay, I might have just read this article, formed my own opinion of FINA, and move on to the next article, if I wasn’t going to take up my GRE. But, since I have my GRE now, I give it a second reading. I first understand the subject. It is about the sub-standard pool condition in the 2016 Olympics.I then mark new words (“manky” is one) in the article, look up the meaning, synonym/antonym, and usage statements in the dictionary. I open an Excel sheet and mark all such words that I pick up during the day. (Not trusting my memory, I do a weekly revision of this list.)Next, I look at places where the author is giving his opinion. Is he being critical of FINA or is he being supportive? Which is the statement in this article that indicates his opinion or tone? How is he concluding the write-up? Are there any gaps in his argument? Is he sounding biased?With this approach, you build not only your vocabulary but also your logic and reasoning skills. Gradually, move toward reading topics of serious interest, such as the Opinion and Editorial write-ups. Such writings are of more serious nature and you will get exposure to higher-order words, sentences, arguments, and contexts. This would largely help you in your Verbal Reasoning section of GRE.Finally, practice a number of TC, SE, & RC exercises. While there are trainers aplenty, go for quality trainers who know their job. Stick to the study plan that they provide. Practice a lot and take up timed tests. You will excel!







This link offers the best GRE Guide: The Ultimate GRE Guide - Cafe EnginerdThe verbal section in the link is described as follows,Verbal Prep:The key to cracking verbal is to know the words. If you get the words, it is just a simple English Fill in the Blank then.So where to do the words. Follow this method and you will crack the GRE:Read this entire book- Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition (English, Paperback, NORMAN LEWIS). It is a fairly small book that will tell you the origins of all the words and second half of the book is filled with words alphabetically. If you do this book, you are ready for the GRE. Please buy this book, its only for 100rs and will certainly change your future.Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition - Buy Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition Online at Best Prices in India - Flipkart.comThe Magoosh App (Complete it 3 TIMES, Not a JOKE)It is my opinion that rather than doing 10000 words while reading them only once, do only 2000-4000 words and read them 3-4 times. It is not humanly possible to remember the words in one go. The best method to remember words is to by remembering the example. Make sure you read the words so many times that you must remember not only the example but even the word that is next in line ;p. You can also do words from those Barron 800 or other 1000 words book. But they will simply be a repetition from Word Power.After you feel satisfied with the words, you can start off with the 5lb and other practice books. There is also some GMAT 1000. Do essays properly and understand how to read them. Reading is not as important as understanding what to read. Learn how to read. There is no method in this apart from quickly skimming and understanding what was written in which para. Read the question and find the answer properly in that para. Also, learn which essays to leave during the exam as some are very tough (literally greek) and will waste your time for the other easy questions.For more doubts about MS in US visit us: Masters - Cafe Enginerd and send your queries to cafeenginerd@gmail.com. Happy to Help!







These are the things I followed and managed to get a pretty decent score after preparing for 15-16 days. Barrons and Kaplan are excellent books to prepare for GRE, but before you start the real preparation, you want to know as many words as possible, for which the general suggestion everyone gives is reading Barrons wordlist.Most people do start off trying to read and remember those 3500 words from Barrons wordlist. But as I have noticed, a very high percentage of people give up within the first week and probably even before they finish words starting with 'a'. That might be for the following reasons:way too many words: if you have an amazing vocabulary and you are aware of most of the words, then its fine. But I am assuming thats not the case with most of us. Once you actually start reading and you know how much time you take to go through say a 100 words, its very discouraging to have that huge a set of words ahead of you.words are in alphabetical order: you have this whole page of words, say 40-50 words in a single page, so many times the first 3-4 characters will be the same for all of them, that is very very confusing. You will spend hours trying to memorize and yet you will horribly fail.content is compressed: if you buy the book having wordlist or if you manage to get a pdf copy, you will notice that the words and meanings are printed in small font and there is barely any space to write down any notes.So this is what I did:I came across this website http://www.majortests.com where you get 15 wordlists, each wordlist containing 100 words, thats 1500 words totally. In each wordlist, these 100 words are again subdivided into lists of 10 words each and now these 10 words dont start with the same letter. For example, 1st 10 words will be "abhor, bigot, counterfeit, enfranchise, hamper, kindle, noxious, placid, remuneration, talisman", and then the next 10 words will be "abrasive, bilk, covert, engender, hangar, knotty, nuance, plagiarism, renown, tangent" and so on. So its easier to read and remember these words.Secondly, the wordlists that you download from the above website have  exactly 20 words per page, and half of the page (right hand side column) is left blank to take down notes.If you still find it difficult to memorize words, or you want to be a 100% sure that you remember the words you read once, then you could try mnemonics, an easy way to remember meanings (thanks to gp). Go to http://www.mnemonicdictionary.com and type the word you want mnemonic for, and choose from the list of mnemonics available. This website is just like quora in the sense that mnemonics are arranged in the descending order of the number of upvotes they get. I used to write these mnemonics as notes in the wordlists I had got printed, that way I didnt have to go to the website again even if I forgot the mnemonic.(In the end, if you think you have a lot of time left, then you could go through Barrons high frequency words wordlist, you dont want to miss out on any obvious ones.)Once you are done with wordlists, then starts your actual preparation. As I mentioned earlier, go through ETS, Barrons and Kaplan practice books. Read the tips and tricks given at the beginning of every chapter, trust me they help a lot. Then go through the practice questions given at the end of every chapter. Do verify whether your answers are correct or not, that is the whole point of solving them.Go through as many practice tests as possible. A safe minimum number of tests to be taken would be 10. You get 2 tests from ETS, 2 from Barrons if you have bought the book, and you will find several other paid/unpaid tests online. If you are taking online tests, make sure you have good internet connection probably 3g, you dont want any test to go waste mid way through. Take complete tests: no matter how confident you are about your quant, no matter how painstaking and boring essay writing may seem, its necessary you practice sitting for 4 hours in from of a computer and get an estimate of time required per question. Once you get the score after giving the practice test, go through the questions you answered wrong, even if you have got a good score. It would be a good idea to leave practice tests given by ETS for last, it gives you an idea of what the questions look like in the actual GRE, since they use the same formatting at both places.Even though I mentioned 15-16 days in the beginning, I think preparing for around 2 months would be a better idea.







The below study method is tried and tested by me and I'm hopeful that it would help you guys :) To excel at GRE Verbal, one has to have a good vocabulary. To bag a good vocabulary, make it a habit of reading newspapers daily because newspapers offer wide range of working vocabulary  related to different genres. I would recommend American newspapers (like Nytimes.com)  because the writing style closely matches with that of the content that appears in the exam. Coming to Indian newspapers, we all know that it has to be THE HINDU and nothing else. Observe every new word and understand its meaning. Revise it regularly.(Vocabulary.com  does a very good job for you in this. It tells you everything that you need to know about a word. Also, you can make word lists).  Try to use the words in your daily life.  One to two months of this reading should suffice. Now coming to cracking the individual sections of the verbal. 1)Reading Comprehension.Follow the simple steps mentioned in Manhattan Reading Comprehension book and practice diligently. 2)Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence Follow Manhattan text completion and sentence equivalence book. Very good hacks are mentioned in the book. It would be very useful. Again practice thoroughly. 3)  Practice questions from the book Manhattan 5lb practice as the above mentioned books do not offer sufficient number of questions. This book offers wide range of books in varying difficult levels.  In short, a good reading vocabulary equipped with the hacks mentioned in the above mentioned books will get you above 157 easily. Happy learning :)







Thanks for the A2AThe fact that you have a good hold of atleast one branch of English usage is a strength. As for what you said, it’s not all about memorizing lists and reading newspapers. You just need to know some of the common words that are used in native English speaking nations and since you (like me) are a non-native speaker, you’re finding it difficult. But keep in mind that some of these words are going to pervade your regular vocabulary and feature in your regular usage, so even if you do have to memorize it, don’t feel that it is not going to be useful. As kids, we all memorized the alphabets and the simple words from the alphabets.Secondly, reading newspapers or for that matter anything with dense verbal content, you’re increasing your skills of comprehension, which is so necessary in the actual exam (also to reiterate my point, some of the difficult words will also be used in the passages). My personal opinion is that mastering reading comprehension is a sure way of getting a great score in the test, since even the text completion and sentence equivalence questions you solve would necessitate comprehending them (and they are quite dense with respect to content). So reading stuff that enhances your knowledge, uses good vocabulary and is of a varied nature when it comes to subject content is always helpful for the test, and a good newspaper is something that fits the billing perfectly.As for the preparation, if you want to do it unconventionally, I’d suggest you read books that have good content in them and uses above average vocabulary and try to absorb the gist of the text. Search for word meanings when you come across them, try to use them, so that you’ll know how to use words in context. Make a list of such words and make sentences to use them in. If you can’t read books, search for articles in a variety of subjects and do the same with it. The more topics you’re comfortable with, the better chances you have of scoring well. This is more time consuming than the conventional process and needs a lot of dedication and efforts and I assure you that it’d be worth it.







GRE Prep Online Guides and TipsHow to Ace GRE Verbal: 13 Expert Study TipsAuthor Ellen McCammonPosted onFebruary 7, 2017CategoriesGRE VerbalTagsgre format,gre practice, gre vocab, preparing for the gre, question types, reading comprehension, study tipsFeeling vexed by the GRE Verbal section? Or just not sure how to maximize your score? You’ve come to the right place!In this total guide to acing GRE Verbal, we’ll give a comprehensive overview of everything you need to know to get a great score. We’ll start with a quick bird’s-eye-view of the section, and then go in-depth on each question type. After that we’ll go over how to prepare for the test—with a special section on addressing common weaknesses. Finally, we’ll suggest some strategies for success on test day and provide a couple of extra tips for those of you who are going for that perfect 170!The GRE Verbal Section: An OverviewThe GRE Verbal Reasoning sectiontests your high-level reading and language skills. You’ll be asked vocabulary questions about choosing the appropriate word(s) for a given sentence based on context, and reading comprehension questions that have to do with parsing the main ideas and interpreting the details of complex passages.Like the Quantitative section, the GRE Verbal Section is a 40-question test split into two 20-question subsections. It’s scored on a scale from 130-170, in one-point increments.The GRE is section-adaptive, which means your performance on the first 20-question subsection determines the difficulty of questions in the second 20-question subsection. If you want a score towards the higher end of the scale, you need to be able to access that more difficult second subsection.Each 20-question section will havethe following approximate question breakdown:About 10 questions on vocab,split between sentence equivalence and text completion questions.About 10 questions on reading comprehension, split between traditional multiple choice, multi-answer multiple choice (select all correct answers from a list), and select-in-passage questions.We’ll do a deep dive on each of these question types in the next section.Quick side note: we've created the world's leading online GRE prep program that adapts to you and your strengths and weaknesses. Not sure what to study? Confused by how to improve your score? PrepScholar guides you, step by step.I want to be clear - you don't NEED a prep program to get a great GRE score. But we believe PrepScholar is thebest GRE prep program available right now, especially if you find it hard to organize your study schedule and don't know what to study.Click here to learn how you can improve your GRE score by 7 points, guaranteed.So get your scuba gear ready!GRE Verbal Questions: All 5 Types ExplainedIn this section, we’ll explain each GRE Verbal question type, provide an example and explanation, and give tips on how to approach those questions.GRE Verbal Vocab QuestionsThere are two kinds of vocab questions: sentence equivalence and text completion.SENTENCE EQUIVALENCESentence equivalence questions give you a sentence with one blank, and you need to pick two words from a selection of six that could both complete the sentence and give the sentence the same general meaning.Example QuestionHere’s an example of a sentence equivalence question from the ETS website.Directions: “Select the two answer choices that, when used to complete the sentence, fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole and produce completed sentences that are alike in meaning.”Question: Although it does contain some pioneering ideas, one would hardly characterize the work as __________.orthodoxeccentricoriginaltriflingconventionalinnovativeExplanationThe key signal word here is “although,” which lets us know that the second half of the sentence is going to offer a counterpoint to the first half. So though the work has “pioneering ideas” [point], one would not characterize the work as pioneering overall [counterpoint]. We’re looking for synonyms of pioneering to complete the sentence, then.“Orthodox” and “conventional” are antonyms of pioneering—let’s eliminate those. “Eccentric” is tempting, but a work can be strange without being pioneering, so it’s not quite right. “Original”—that could definitely work. “Trifling” means frivolous or inconsequential, which isn’t right. That leaves “innovative,” which is definitely a synonym for “pioneering.” The only answers that really work, then, are “original” and “innovative.”GRE Verbal Tips for Sentence EquivalenceWhile a lot of the individual words might make seem like they make sense in the context of the sentence, the two words have to give the sentence a similar meaning.If you’re pretty sure of one word, that can help you narrow down your choices for the other word; you can eliminate any choices that would make the sentence mean something totally different.However, don’t assume that just because you’ve found two synonyms that you’ve got the right answer; the makers of the GRE often put in multiple synonym pairs to trip you up! In the question above, “orthodox” and “traditional” have similar meaning, but they aren’t the right choices because the sentence doesn’t really make sense with them.I know they’re cute, but don’t just pick the first twins you see!TEXT COMPLETIONText completion questions give you a sentence or short passage (up to six sentences) missing one to three words. You’ll need to select the word(s) that best complete the passage.For passages with one missing word, you’ll select the correct word from five choices. For passages with two or three missing words, each blank will have three possible answer choices. In all cases, you’ll select the word(s) you want to choose by clicking on them. For single-blank questions, this will just be from a list; for multiple-blank questions, you’ll have a table where each column represents your choices for a particular blank.Example QuestionHere’s an example of text completion from the ETS website so you can see what this looks like in action.Directions: “For each blank select one entry from the corresponding column of choices. Fill all blanks in the way that best completes the text.”Question: Vain and prone to violence, Caravaggio could not handle success: the more his (i)__________ as an artist increased, the more (ii)__________ his life became.Blank (i)Blank (ii)temperancetumultuousnotorietyprovidentialeminencedispassionateExplanationThe key phrase here is “Caravaggio could not handle success.” This indicates that the rest of the sentence is going to elaborate on how he handled success poorly. So the blank in the phrase “the more his <blank> as an artist increased” is going to be a synonym for “success.”Temperance is definitely wrong—it means “restraint” or “abstinence from alcohol.” That leaves “notoriety,” which means “fame,” but with a potentially negative implication (think “notorious”). It’s tempting, but “eminence”—fame with the implication of skill or success—is a better synonym for “success.”Since we know Caravaggio could not handle success, we are looking for a negative word to describe his life once he became successful for the second blank. “Tumultuous” (meaning “chaotic,” like a tumult) is the only choice that’s clearly negative. (“Providential” means “lucky”—think “providence,” like “divine providence”—and “dispassionate” means “detached.”) So, the correct answer is “eminence” and then “tumultuous.”GRE Verbal Tips for Text CompletionA really important thing for text completion is word valence. What do I mean by this? Word valence is whether a word has a positive or a negative tone overall. You can usually figure out whether a word should have a positive or a negative connotation from sentence context, even if you can’t exactly figure out the word is. For example, in the above question, in the first blank, “the more his _______ as an artist increased,” it’s pretty clear from context that this should be a positive word. This actually helps us pick between “notoriety” and “eminence” even though they have similar meanings—“notoriety” has a negative valence, while “eminence” has a positive one.If you aren’t familiar with a word in the list, try to think if you know any similar words.For blank (ii) above, you may not be familiar with “tumultuous,” but have you heard the word “tumult”? Or maybe you don’t know “providential,” but you know “providence” and you have a sense that it means protection or care. Any information you can leverage about words you do know can help you figure out the right choice when you aren’t totally sure what all the words mean.Word valence: you have two choices.GRE Verbal Reading Comprehension QuestionsThere are three kinds of reading comprehension questions: multiple choice, multiple-answer multiple choice, and select-in-passage. All reading comprehension example questions come from ETS and are based on the following example passage: (See passage and questions from ETS here).Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition, an approach that had been in hibernation in the United States during the 1960s, composer Philip Glass (born 1937) embraced the ethos of popular music in his compositions. Glass based two symphonies on music by rock musicians David Bowie and Brian Eno, but the symphonies’ sound is distinctively his. Popular elements do not appear out of place in Glass’s classical music, which from its early days has shared certain harmonies and rhythms with rock music. Yet this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music. His music is not a version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners; it is high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics.MULTIPLE CHOICEMultiple choice questions are pretty straightforward, at least in format.Example QuestionDirections: Select only one answer choice.Question: The passage addresses which of the following issues related to Glass’s use of popular elements in his classical compositions?Want to improve your GRE score by 7 points? We have the industry's leading GRE prep program. Built byworld-class instructors with 99th percentile GRE scores, the program learns your strengths and weaknesses through machine learning data science, then customizes your prep program to you so you get the most effective prep possible.Try our 5-day full access trial for free:Get a great GRE score. GuaranteedHow it is regarded by listeners who prefer rock to the classicsHow it has affected the commercial success of Glass’s musicWhether it has contributed to a revival of interest among other composers in using popular elements in their compositionsWhether it has had a detrimental effect on Glass’s reputation as a composer of classical musicWhether it has caused certain of Glass’s works to be derivative in qualityExplanationThis question wants to know what the passage says about “issues related to Glass’s use of popular elements in his classical compositions.” Let’s go through the answers to see if any are supported by the passage.Choice (A) says “how it [Glass’ use of popular elements] is regarded by listeners who prefer rock to the classics.” If you look back up at the passage, you can see that the passage doesn’t mention people who prefer rock music at all. Choice (A) can’t be correct; let’s move on. Choice (B) refers to Glass’ commercial success, but again, the passage doesn’t mention anything about Glass’ profits or popularity. Choice (C) discusses Glass’ effects on other composers. Other composers aren’t mentioned—just popular musicians Brian Eno and David Bowie.We are left with choices (D) and (E) as the only possible answers at this point. Choice (D) talks about Glass’ reputation as a composer. The passage doesn’t say anything explicit about his reputation; for all we know, everyone but the author hates Philip Glass. This leaves (E)— “whether [Glass’ use of popular elements] has caused certain of Glass’ works to be derivative in quality.” If you look in the passage, the author asserts about Glass’ symphonies based on works by Eno and Bowie that “the symphonies’ sound is distinctly his.” This does address whether or not the works are derivative by asserting that they are not. (E) is the correct answer.Tips for Multiple Choice Reading Comprehension Questions:Rely on evidence from the passage. This is the most important strategy for ALL reading comprehension questions. There might only be a few words in the passage that directly address the correct answer, as in the above question, where all we get on the issue of whether or not Glass’ works are derivative is the phrase that the “symphonies’ sound is distinctly his.” This is sparse—but it’s there, and it is responsive to whether or not his works are derivative. There will always be concrete evidence of some kind in the passage to support the correct answer. Don’t get tricked by answer choices that aren’t directly contradicted by the passage but that don’t actually have any evidence present—ETS loves to include choices like this.With that said, don’t try to absorb every detail of the passage on a first pass-through. We’ll discuss developing a strategy to address passages later in the article, but it’s far better to read passages for main ideas first and then look back at the passage for more details when you are trying to select the right answer.The sponge strategy of total absorption is actually not your best bet here.MULTI-ANSWER MULTIPLE CHOICEIn multiple-answer multiple choice GRE Verbal questions, you’ll be given three numbered choices and need to select all that apply.Example:Directions: Consider each of the three choices separately and select all that apply.Question: The passage suggests that Glass’s work displays which of the following qualities?A return to the use of popular music in classical compositionsAn attempt to elevate rock music to an artistic status more closely approximating that of classical musicA long-standing tendency to incorporate elements from two apparently disparate musical stylesExplanation:Since we need to pick each statement that applies, let’s consider each of them separately.First, does Glass’s work display “a return to the use of popular music in classical compositions”? If we look back at the passage, we can see that the very first phrase is “Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition” about Glass’s work. (A) is correct!Let’s move on to (B). Does Glass’s work display “an attempt to elevate rock music to an artistic status more closely approximating that of classical music”? You might think the answer is yes because Glass is an artistic composer who uses rock elements. But it’s critical that we actually look back at details in the passage. Then we’ll see that it says that “this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music.” If Glass doesn’t compose popular—i.e. rock—music, then he can’t be attempting to “elevate” rock music. He’s simply incorporating rock elements in classical music, which already has “artistic status.” So (B) isn’t correct.Moving on to (C), does Glass’s work display “a long-standing tendency to incorporate elements from two apparently disparate musical styles”? We know that Glass incorporates rock elements into his classical compositions. So he does “incorporate elements” of “disparate musical styles.” But is it a “long-standing tendency?” The passage says Glass “revive[d] the practice,” which had “been in hibernation.” This suggests that there was a history of combining musical styles. That could be described as a “long-standing tendency.” (C) is also correct. That leaves us with (A) and (C) as our answers.GRE Verbal Tips for Multiple-Answer Multiple-Choice QuestionsYou have seven possible answer choice combinationsfor these questions (A, B, C, A&B, A&C, B&C, A&B&C), but don’t be overwhelmed by this.Consider each statement individually and assess it on its own merits without considering any of the others. For other question styles, comparing answer choices is smart because there will be one best answer. For this kind of question, it’s much better to treat each statement as a mini-question of its own. Does the statement apply to the passage? Yes or no?For a statement to be correct,every part of that statement has to be correct. For example, in the above statement (C), we didn’t just have to determine if Glass combined disparate elements of two styles—we had to determine if there was a “long-standing tendency.” You have to consider all parts of each statement. Don’t ignore a single word!As in other reading comprehension questions, rely on what’s in the passage for evidence. If you have to make any logical leaps or inferences with no direct evidence from the text, it’s not the right answer.So does this mean that if I compose a rock opera they might include a passage about me in the GRE?SELECT-IN-PASSAGEIn select-in-passage questions for GRE Verbal, you will be directed toselect the sentence that best fulfills a particular criteria. Then you will literally click the sentence in the passage on your screen to select your answer.Example QuestionDirections/Question: Select the sentence that distinguishes two ways of integrating rock and classical music. [Note: in the actual GRE Verbal section, you will hover your cursor over the passage and click on the sentence you want].Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition, an approach that had been in hibernation in the United States during the 1960s, composer Philip Glass (born 1937) embraced the ethos of popular music in his compositions.Glass based two symphonies on music by rock musicians David Bowie and Brian Eno, but the symphonies’ sound is distinctively his.Popular elements do not appear out of place in Glass’s classical music, which from its early days has shared certain harmonies and rhythms with rock music.Yet this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music.His music is not a version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners; it is high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics.ExplanationThe key thing we are looking for here is a sentence with two ways to integrate rock and classical music. Let’s go through it sentence-by-sentence:The first sentence only talks about one way: “using elements of popular music in classical composition.”The second sentence continues to talk about this one way, just with a specific example.The third sentence continues to talk about one way—using popular elements in “Glass’s classical music.”The fourth sentence seems a little ambiguous at first—it mentions his use of popular elements has not made him a “composer of popular music,” which suggests a second option. But that doesn’t really delineate two ways of integrating rock and classical, just two kinds of composers—classical and popular.The last sentence, finally, presents two different ways of integrating rock and classical: a “version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners,” one way, is contrasted against Glass’s method of “high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics,” another way.Since the last sentence is the only one that really presents two ways to integrate rock and classical, it has to be the right choice.GRE Verbal Tips for Select-in-Passage QuestionsA key part of select-in-passage questions is choosing the best sentence. So if there are two sentences that both seem like they might kind of work, you need to assess which one answers the question in the most complete and direct way. Again, I can’t reiterate enough that using evidence from the passage is the essential reading comprehension strategy—you’ll know the best sentence because it will have the clearest evidence that it fulfills whatever criteria you need to select for.Similarly, when choosing a dog, choose the best dog.How to Study for GRE VerbalBefore you start preparing in earnest, there are two things you need to do: establish a baseline and set a goal score for the GRE Verbal Reasoning section.To establish a baseline, take a complete, scored Verbal section(that would be two subsections or 40 questions). I advise taking an entirePowerPrep test to set your baseline for the entire test anyways—it forms an essential part of any GRE study plan. But since we’re discussing Verbal right now, I’ll focus on Verbal. The Verbal score you get at the very beginning of your prep process is your baseline. Once you’ve established this baseline, you need to figure out a goal score.Your goal score for a given section just needs to be a high enough score to not be a barrier to admission. How do you figure this out? Look up the average GRE Verbal scores for all of the programs that you’re interested in. Take the highest number, add 1-2 points for safety, and that’s your goal score. You cansee more on setting a goal score here, including advice on what to do if your programs don’t give much score information.So once you’ve set a goal score, you can get a decent idea of how long you’ll need to study to bring your baseline up to your goal score. We have the following estimates for the hours it will take to improve a certain point amount:5 points = 40 hours10 points = 80 hours20 points = 160 hours30 points = 240 hoursSo if your baseline is 155, and you need to get up to 160, expect to spend about 40 hours studying.Once you’ve set a goal score, there are two overall prongs of attack you’ll need to consider when you prepare for the GRE Verbal section: content/skills (the underlying foundational material the GRE is testing) and strategy (how you actually approach questions and the overall test. We discuss how best to approach the two prongs below.No, I said two prongs, not two prawns!GRE Verbal Content and Skills PracticeThere are a few key content and skills areas to work on for GRE Verbal. We’ll detail each—and how to work on it—below.LEARNING GRE VOCABULARYA big part of GRE success is learning vocabulary. As you might imagine, it’s very hard to answer sentence equivalence and text completion questions if you aren’t familiar with any of the answers. Even beyond that, a strong vocabulary makes it much easier to parse the difficult passages you’ll be faced with for reading comprehension.Want to improve your GRE score by 7+ points?Check out our best-in-class online GRE prep program. Weguarantee your money backif you don't improve your GRE score by 7 points or more.PrepScholar GRE is entirely online, and it customizes your prep program to your strengths and weaknesses. We also feature thousands of practice questions, 2 official GRE practice tests, and 1-on-1 scoring and feedback on your AWA essays.Check out our 5-day free trial now:Get 7 More Points On Your GRE, GuaranteedThere are two parts to learning vocab: simple memorization and vocab-in-context. Both are critical parts of the vocabulary process.For simple memorization, your best bet is the friendly flashcard. We have our own flashcard PDF, as well as reviews of other flashcard sets you might consider. When you are drilling those cards, I recommendusing the waterfall method to ensure you’re really memorizing every word. If you want to be able to review your flashcards online, you can use Quizlet, although you can’t do the waterfall method with their interface so I recommend also making hard copies.You might think that after memorizing 1000 vocab flash cards that you’re all set. But that’s only part of the equation. You also need to make sure that you actually understand the words in context—so you know how to use them and how to understand them being used by others. This will also help you actually remember the words and what they mean.There are a couple things you can do to work on your in-context vocabulary. First, you can try writing out sentences with your vocab words to make sure you really know how they are used in context. You can also read high-level publications and make note of how the words you learned are used there. When you find yourself using the words in conversation or in writing fairly naturally, you know that you’ve really learned them.“Yes, I think Thor is indubitably the best Avenger!”READING COMPREHENSION FOR COMPLEX GRE PASSAGESAs you might imagine, the best way to improve your reading comprehension is to read a lot. But don’t just go for quantity—you should read things that are topically similar to what you’ll be faced with on the GRE. Try to read a diverse array of articles from publications with a high reading level like the Atlantic, the New York Times, the Economist, Nature, and so on. Because there are often science passages on the GRE, you can even try reading abstracts from scientific studies on PubMed. Can you figure out the main hypothesis and results of the study from the abstract, even if it’s in an area you aren’t familiar with?As you read articles, make sure you really understand what’s being said. What’s the main idea? What evidence does the author advance to support their position? Do they present any counterpoints? If you can understand the argumentative and rhetorical structure of complex articles, you’ll be all set for GRE Verbal Reasoning.IDENTIFYING SIGNAL WORDSSignal words and phrases tell youimportant contextual informationabout the sentence or passage—information that will help you select the correct answer. They are particularly critical elements for selecting the correct words in vocab questions, but can also help you quickly parse the meaning of complex passages.Signal words are usually transitions and indicate whether some previously presented piece of information is going to be supported, contradicted, clarified, and so on.Here are a few common groups of GRE signal words, what they signal, and a brief, simple example sentence:However/although – offering a caveat or mitigationAlthough the author was social by nature, he did not particularly enjoy book tours.Indeed/furthermore – offering further support or emphasisThe author was social by nature; indeed, he loved meeting hundreds of new people on book tours.By contrast/rather/instead – offering a different perspective, counterpoint, or purposeThe author was not social by nature; rather, he was forced into sociability by the necessities of book tours and signing.To practice your understanding of signal words, try to notice every time you think you see a signal word in what you are reading. Consider what the signal word is indicating.You might even keep a running list with the sentence, the signal word, and what it indicates in that sentence. Over time, you’ll develop your own base of signal word knowledge.This signal’s a pretty clear one, though.Study Tips for GRE Verbal Practice Questions and SectionsHere are my recommendations for using actual practice tests and questions to prepare for the GRE Verbal section.USE OFFICIAL MATERIAL WHEN POSSIBLEThe best material for Verbal practice questions will always beofficial ETS material. Since they make the test, their material is the closest to the real GRE experience. You can get complete official practice tests from the PowerPrep software, plus additional practice questions from their paper tests and online. (Check out our guide to the best Verbal resources out there.) You can also consider buying a prep book.TARGET YOUR WEAKNESSESWhen you complete practice GRE Verbal questions, tests, and sections, pay close attention to what you get wrong. The patterns of what you answer incorrectly will reveal anycontent or strategy weaknesses that you need to target to improve. Are you always missing sentence equivalence? Do science-themed passages confuse you? You’ll know to work on those things.PRACTICE PACING AND TEST STRATEGYIt’s critical that you practice staying on pace so that you can answer all the questions in the time allotted. To that end, be sure to take timed practice sections and monitor any areas where you’re losing too much time. In general, try not to spend too much time on vocabulary, since reading comprehension questions will naturally take longer due to the reading time involved.You also need to practice strategies for selecting the correct answer like working on your process of elimination skills.GRE pacing isn’t as fun as motorcycle race pacing, but it’s a similar concept.DEVELOP A CONSISTENT STRATEGY FOR PASSAGESIt’s critical that you come up with a strategy for approaching passages on the GRE that works for you. Having a consistent approach that you hone during prep will help you with time management during Verbal and increase your comfort level when faced with the GRE’s dense, complex passages.There are two solid strategies for approaching GRE passages and reading comprehension questions:Skim passage first: In this strategy, you’ll quickly skim the passage before reading the question. Then once you’ve read the question, you’ll look back in the passage for the details and evidence that you need to answer the question.Read question first: For this approach, you’ll read the question first, then read through the passage looking for the evidence that will tell you the right answer.Both of these strategies can work well for students and help them manage their time; making them work for you is mostly a matter of personal preference.Unfortunately, there’s also a third approach that, while commonly used, is not a good strategy. In this approach, you’ll closely read the passage first, trying to absorb every detail. Then you’ll read the question, and find that you still have to go back into the passage to find the answer. As you might imagine, this is an inefficient strategy that wastes a lot of time. Most of the details in the passage aren’t going to be important for an individual question, so getting too bogged down in trying to understand and remember them is totally unnecessary. If you’re going to read the passage first, just quickly skim it for the main points.My passage strategy is that I only read next to the beach.4 Common GRE Verbal Problems and How to Fix ThemIt’s critical to address your own particular weaknesses on the Verbal section, but there are a few weak points that are common to a lot of students. We’ve listed them below and suggested some ways to address them if they are issues that you have.Forgetting The Vocabulary You LearnedIf you find yourself forgetting large swathes of the vocab you drilled, it means you probably didn’t learn it in a very effective way (sorry). Did you complete both components of the vocabulary process mentioned above? Or did you just memorize without applying? Make sure that you have been both drilling flashcards effectively and learning vocabulary in context. See above for my recommendations on the best way to really learn and retain vocabulary.Running Out of TimeIf you are struggling to finish Verbal sections on time, the primary thing you need to do is figure out where you’re losing time. Are you primarily losing time on vocab, or reading comprehension? For vocab, it’s typically a waste of time to spend a long while agonizing over those questions—you typically either know the words, or you don’t. Read the questions very carefully and answer them to the best of your ability, but don’t spend 30 seconds staring blankly at the answers. If you find yourself doing this, try completing passage questions first, and then come back to the vocab.If, by contrast, you’re flying through the vocab questions but running out of time because you’re spending too much time on passages, yourapproach to passages may not be very effective. Are you spending too much time on your initial read-through? Are you overthinking what counts as “evidence” and overanalyzing every little word? Re-read our advice on passage strategy above for some tips on adjusting your approach.Of course, you could feel rushed because of a combination of vocab and reading comprehension issues, in which case, fiddle around with changing your passage strategy and answering vocab questions at a faster pace or after reading comprehension to try to figure out what works best for you.I, too, wish I had a rainbow hourglass to keep track of time for me at all moments.Being Torn Between Two AnswersThere is always a best answer choice on the GRE (except for multi-answer multiple choice, but then there’s no need to be torn!) If you frequently find that you can narrow your choices down to two, but then you can’t choose the final one, a couple things could be happening. If this is happening primarily on vocab questions, you may just not know the vocab well enough. Also be sure to consider word valence—based on context, does a positive or negative word belong in the blank? That can help a lot in differentiating answers.If this is primarily happening on reading comprehension, you need to hone your understanding ofidentifying evidence in passages.Only one answer will ever be correct based on clear evidence in the passage. This means you need to practice parsing the complex passages for the small details that point to the correct answer.Feeling Intimidated by GRE PassagesIf you find yourself doing well during low-pressure prep sessions but getting flustered by the long, complex passages during timed practice tests, work on staying calm. If all the practice test passages seem crazy-difficult , it’s possible that the material you’ve been reading isn’t difficult enough, or that you aren’t reading a big enough variety of sources. But it’s also possible that you’re just suffering from some test anxiety. In this case, maintain positive self-talk, take deep breaths, and know that you can do it.If you feel stressed, just think about adorable kittens.Taking the Test: 4 GRE Verbal Tips for SuccessWhen you actually take the test, here are some strategies to help you ace the Verbal section!Use Mark & Return LiberallyFriends, you get the same amount of points for easy questions as hard questions. What does this mean for your strategy? Do questions that you find easy first! If you look at a question or a passage and you think “ew, gross,” or you find yourself staring at it in blank confusion for more than a few seconds, mark that question and come back to it!Odds are that it will seem easier when you come back to it, and even if it doesn’t, at least you didn’t waste valuable time when you could have been getting easy (or at least easier) points.Answer Every QuestionThere’s no guessing penalty on the GRE, so it’s to your advantage to answer every question. Keep an eye on the time and when you have a few minutes left, quickly skim remaining questions and pick answers.When You Do Guess, Guess SmartTo the extent that you can avoid guessing randomly, you should. This means you should hone all of your educated guessing and process-of-elimination skills, then deploy them with a vengeance on the test! Every time you can eliminate a wrong answer, your chance of guessing the right one goes up.Keep Calm and Do What You PracticedDon’t get psyched out when you’re faced with the actual test. Trust that you’ve prepared all you can, and calmly implement all of your passage and question-answering strategies. Even if you feel like some questions are throwing you for a loop, maintain positive self-talk, take some deep breaths, and move on to another question. You can do it!Again, if you need to calm down, I recommend thinking about soft, adorable animals.2 Bonus Tips for a Perfect Score on GRE VerbalIf you’re really going for that 170 on Verbal, here are a couple additional tips to help you get there!Be Aware of What You Can Afford to Get WrongThe answer: not much. While a 170 on Quant usually requires a truly perfect raw score, though, you can usually get one question wrongand still get a 170 on Verbal. This leaves you with a very, very tiny margin for error.Laser in on Your WeaknessesIt’s always good to focus on your weaknesses when you’re preparing for a test, but if you want a 170, you need to pinpoint your weak points as exactly as possible. It’s not enough to know that you sometimes get tripped up by Sentence Equivalence—which Sentence Equivalence questions? Are you picking things that aren’t quite synonyms? Are you tripped up by multiple pairs of synonyms? To really figure out exact, specific weakness, you’ll probably need to do an enormous amount of practice problems so you can notice patterns in what you’re missing that are as specific as possible. Then, you can target those super-specific weaknesses and not be thrown on test day.I don’t advise including actual lasers in this process.Review: GRE Verbal Questions, Practice, and TipsHere’s what we reviewed in our total guide to GRE Verbal domination.There are five types of GRE Verbal questions:Vocab Questions:Sentence equivalence (choose two words that could both complete a sentence and give it a similar meaning)Text completion (fill in the blanks with the best word choices)Reading Comprehension Questions:Multiple-choice (choose the right answer)Multi-answer multiple choice (choose all correct statements)Select-in-passage (choose the right sentence in the passage)In preparing for GRE Verbal, your first step has to be establishing a baseline and a goal score. Then take the following steps.Review Content:Build your vocabularyGet comfortable reading complex materialLearn to identify signal wordsPractice:Use the best (official) materialTarget your weaknessesPractice pacing and strategy, like process-of-eliminationDevelop a strategy for passagesAddress Weaknesses:If you’re forgetting the vocab you learned, you probably aren’t drilling it very effectively.If you’re running out of time, you may be either spending too much time deliberating on vocab questions or your passage strategy isn’t very effective.Being torn between two answers is a sign that you need to further hone your vocabulary knowledge or your ability to pick out evidence in passages.If you feel intimidated by passages, it could be a sign either that you aren’t practicing difficult enough reading material or that you just have some test anxiety.Test-Day Success Strategies:Take advantage of mark & return to do the easier questions first and save the hardest ones for last!Answer every question—it can only help you.When you do guess, eliminate as many answers as you confidently can first.Keep calm and trust in the preparation you did!Extra Tips for a 170:Be aware of what you can get wrong and still get a 170. Usually, you can get one question incorrect and still receive that top score.When you’re prepping, laser-in on your weaknesses as specifically as possible.The bottom line is that if you follow good prep practices as outlined in this article, you can ace GRE Verbal!







To get admission into a top graduate programs in US, it's important for you to obtain Good GRE Score. This GRE score will help to candidates and University to complete the application process. Often applicants are eager to know what a good GRE score to get into a particular University/College/ Institute. The GRE score will differ depending upon the Institution you choose. Apart from University/ College, The score would be dependent upon the field you select.The GRE verbal and quantitative sections are scored on a scale of 130-170 in one-point increment in each of the two sections. You can score anywhere from 130 to 170 which means that the number of possible scores that can be obtained are limited to just 41. This range means that even a small jump in your GRE score can give a boost to your percentile ranking.Here is a list of US universities with the average GRE scores for their MS and PhD programs:Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT): Verbal: 158Quantitative: 159Writing: 5.3Stanford University: Verbal: 159Quantitative: 158Writing: 4.8University of California, Berkeley: Verbal: 153 – 156 score rangeQuantitative: 167Writing: 4.5University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA): Verbal: 155Quantitative: 167Writing: 5.0University of Virginia: Verbal: 163Quantitative: 166Writing: 4.5University of Michigan – Ann Arbor: Verbal: 160 rangeQuantitative: 167Writing: 5.0University of North Carolina – Chapel Hill: Verbal: 158Quantitative: 160Writing: 4.5Georgia Institute of Technology: Verbal: 158Quantitative: 167Writing: 4.3University of California – San Diego: Verbal: 162Quantitative: 160Writing: 5.5University of Illinois – Urbana/Champaign: Verbal: 155Quantitative: 165Writing: 4.0University of Wisconsin – Madison: Verbal: 163Quantitative: 731Writing: 4.5University of Washington: Verbal: 156Quantitative: 167Writing: 4.0Pennsylvania State University: Verbal: 150Quantitative: 165Writing: 3.0University of Florida (UFL): Verbal: 154Quantitative: 165Writing: 3.0University of Texas , Austin: Verbal: 155Quantitative: 165Writing: 4.0Ohio State University: Verbal: 156Quantitative: 165Writing: 4.0California Institute of Technology: Verbal: 160Quantitative: 157Writing: 5.0Duke University: Verbal: 160Quantitative: 160Writing: 4.5University of Chicago: Verbal: 158Quantitative: 167Writing: 4.0Northwestern University: Verbal: 160Quantitative: 160 Writing: 5.0Washington University in St. Louis: Verbal: 161Quantitative: 160Writing: 5.0Johns Hopkins University: Verbal: 163Quantitative: 164Writing: 4.8Rice University: Verbal: 160Quantitative: 167Writing: 5.0Emory University: Verbal: 153Quantitative: 306Writing: 4.0-6.0University of Notre Dame: Verbal: 165Quantitative: 165 Writing: 5.3Vanderbilt University: Verbal: 157Quantitative: 166Writing: 4.8William and Mary: Verbal: 158Quantitative: 160Writing: 4.5Johns Hopkins UniversityVerbal: 159Quantitative: 162Writing: 4.2Universirty of Texas At DallasAverage Verbal Score 150Average Quant Score: 163Rutgers UniversityAverage Verbal Score 152Average Quant Score: 162







Good GRE and TOEFL scores are necessary, but not sufficient to get into any top 10 US university. I've heard an admissions committee member of a top 10 University say this: "All Indians get high scores in GRE, and excellent recommendation letters, and well written SOPs. We don't know why, and we don't care. If the candidate's GRE score is good, and recommendation letters and SOP are good, we just ignore both of those and use other criteria. If any of those are not up to the mark, we reject the candidate."So what criteria are actually used?Preference is given to colleges in India that the selection committee members have heard of.If a student from college X with GPA/Percentage Y does well in the university, then the university starts regularly taking students with GPA greater than Y from college X. (Of course, if the student does badly, they'll increase the cutoff percentage, or worse yet, stop taking students from X.)Occasionally, they take a chance on an unheard of (for them) college, and admit someone based on a strong resume. That person pretty much holds the fate of the future students of that college in his hands.So your best bet is to apply to universities where your seniors have gone before.







First of all if you are aiming top 10 universities in United States here are a couple of links that might interest you the most throughout this hectic and exhausting process How To Get Into Stanford & Other Graduate Schools and Helping You Get Into Your Dream School (This is supposed to be authored by the famous Stanford university professor Andrew Ng) and will help you the most in the process.Coming to the question I was fortunate to attend a conference organized by Welcome to USIEF ::(United States Indian Educational Foundation) last year regarding the admissions process where delegates from around 100 universities came over to Delhi to enlighten students regarding the different disciplines at the university, the admission criteria, visa application and other supplemental stuff. I posed the following question to one of the delegates in the committee, "What criteria does a university use to normalize profiles of students who have done great at academics, Graduate Record Examination (GRE) and TOEFL but have practically no internship experience, bad projects etc against those who have scored modestly in GRE and TOEFL have secured a bearable percentage of marks and have strong internship, international and competitive flavor to their profile?". And to my delight the answer I got was a positive one, He told that university only requires a student to score the minimal GRE and TOEFL scores that renders the student eligible to apply to the university and after this initial screening is done the application is passed on to a committee of students and professors where the profile is grilled and brownie points are given for the student's outstanding achievements and then there is a weight to weight comparison of profiles between students who managed to pass the initial screening, keeping this in mind I would say try to score well in GRE but even if you don't manage very high scores don't get discouraged you must ensure that you manage a score so that you pass the initial screening phase of your application and as far as top 10 universities in States are concerned the only thing that matters is you and your achievements and most importantly the people from whom you manage to get your Letters of Recommendation, if those people are well known in their respective fields the other parts of your application might just play very little role, and if the recommendation is strong then I do believe it will be an admit in most of the cases.Conclusion : Strive hard to manage both good scores and most importantly build a good profile for which you can participate in internationally recognized events, collaborative research experience will do a world of good, and other such extracurricular activities. Best of Luck.







A graduate education is Totally different than an undergraduate education.In engineering or science (the only areas for which I am familiar) a Graduate degree is like an Apprenticeship.  One works for a professor as a researcher or as a teaching assist.  What do you offer to that professor?   TOEFL and GRE are meaningless numbers in that light.  Do you speak and write enough English to publish papers in peer reviewed journals?  That's it.  Do you have a Strong recommendation from a professor who knows you Real well?Of course, International grad students can run into Problems if they are working on engineering or science projects that are paid for by the US Government.  In that case they may Not be able to do the work, as they are not permanent residents of the USA.  Therefore, be careful of the funding source.Graduate education is All about the funding source of the professor for science or engineering.....NOTE:  If you are sponsored by your country (e.g. your Country is Paying for your graduate degree), then the doors are Wide Open.....Graduate education is all about the Money......







Getting into top universities of US is really a big challenge…GRE Scores for Top US Universities -Every school has its own set of requirements. There are U.S. universities that accept students with very low or no GRE scores, while others require scores above 330. o stop looking for the general GRE cutoff score requirements and start learning how universities accept international students.If you believe that all U.S. colleges and universities have an average GRE cutoff score, well you are very wrong. Each school may or may not disclose their minimum GRE score required for admission. The same condition applies to academic percentage, GMAT score, etc.Some universities have minimum TOEFL scores required for admission.Generally, a total of 320 or more in GRE, and at least, 161 in the quantitative section, can fetch a candidate admission in one of the top universities in the US. The GRE scores would differ depending upon the school you choose. Again, within a particular university / school, it would vary depending upon the field you select.Average TOEFL scoreEnglish proficiency is an important factor in successful admission. The students are therefore advised to work in this area for better chances of selection.Average TOEFL score required is 90 generally.. Still some top universities accept as low as 76 and some universities demands for even 100 or 100 + as well. So it totally varies from school to school and the particular course you are applying.Other than GRE and TOEFL.. Important components required to enter into top universities of USAExceptional GPA - Some universities choose to waive off the GRE score if your grade point average is above 3.4 on a scale of 0 to 4. So it pays to focus on your undergraduate degree and achieving an excellent GPA.Work Experience - Some universities waive off the GRE/GMAT if you have relevant work-experience of four years or more that is closely related to the degree that you aim to study.Strong SOP - Your SOP has the power to make or break your application. Universities treat SOP very seriously and they read your SOP. It is very important you write a good Statement of purpose interweaving your goals, your achievements, how will you achieve your goals and what do you really want to accomplish in life, etc. Statement of purpose gives the admission committee to judge your perspective of life, your career aspirations, your ethics, your technical aptitude, your vision for life, etc. The key point is, it is your chance to explain to admission committee why you are going for higher education and what is your main purpose…Universities give utmost importance to SOP.LOR - Often Universities refer to your Letters of Recommendations as a validation of what all achievements you have written about in your resume. Also, they serve as a proof positive of your work in an organization or your tenure in a college as the LORs are often requested on the official letterheads.Hope you found this article useful and informative…







Although Navin Kabra has answered it pretty well, I thought I should bring in a fresh perspective, keeping in mind the current scenario for getting admitted to MS/PhD programs at the top 10 universities (being an applicant myself). 1. There is no minimum GRE score for qualifying for admission into graduate programs. Majority of the universities refrain from advertising it on their grad-school admissions page. Some do it; case in point - Graduate Admission for Masters and Ph.D. DegreesHaving said that, if your score lies in 320 - 330 bracket, it is considered to be a "safe score" . 330+ is an exceptional score. Yet, getting such a high score doesn't guarantee you an admit. I have friends who have been rejected by the admission committee at Cornell & Stanford, with scores as high as 338 (170 in Verbal). On the other hand, some of my friends got offers from CMU at 309 and from UT, Austin at 314. Since you are stating that you are targeting top 10 universities and MIT is definitely on that list, let me bust another myth. MIT needs 330+ to even consider your application - NO (Page on mit.edu) For graduate programs at MIT, you don't even need to submit your GRE scores. So, then what score should be "sufficient", to not hinder your chances ? My response to that question would be - anything above 310 is considered a decent & acceptable score. If you have done your 10+2 schooling from India, getting 160+ in the Quant section shouldn't be very difficult. Note: That last bit is subjective opinion and I can't generalise it for other students. 2. There exist a minimum TOEFL score requirement for applicants wishing to apply to any university in the states. This score hovers around 80-90. Sometimes, its even 100 (Page on mit.edu). TOEFL comprises of 4 sections - Reading, Listening, Speaking & Writing. Of the 4, Speaking is the most relevant for the application process. This is because,for a lot of students (international students), the program cost (tuition) on an average of ($30k-$40k) + living expenses are of the order of ($10k-$20k ). To cover the expenses, students apply for TAships and in-order to teach somebody, you need to able to converse in English properly. This is judged by the Speaking section in TOEFL which ranks you on the scale of 0-30. Some universities, have a cutoff hovering around 22-25 for speaking section. This cutoff decides whether or not a candidate is eligible for TAships in the near future. So, then what should students "aim to score" in TOEFL, keeping in mind all these factors ? I would suggest, anything above 100 is sufficient with a score of 25+ in speaking section. Also, after preparing for GRE, TOEFL preparation hardly requires 1-1.5 weeks (for understanding the pattern of the exam). Again, this time-frame is subjective to change and it would be unwise to generalise it for all students.  Although Navin Kabra covered this point, yet I would like to re-iterate this point - GRE and TOEFL scores are basic eligibility criteria. Your SOP and LOR matter (A LOT MORE ) to the committee, since they are only medium for them to understand "what the applicant is really all about ?" ! Your CGPA at the UG level gives them an idea about how well you would be able to manage the coursework at their university, and hence it is necessary while reviewing any application. PS - Some points about shortlisting universities (for EE/CS major) - To get an idea about the different tier of universities present in the states, have a look at - I am a CS student wanting to get an MS at a US university. Where should I apply other than UC Berkeley, Stanford, and MIT? I heard that one should have dream target, realistic target, and backup target when applying to US universities. (Subjective to MS in CS) To get an idea about the which universities to apply for MS in Signal Processing/Communication Systems, have a look at - What are the best colleges in the US in the field of Signal Processing and Communications to get a PhD? (Subjective to MS in EE)To get an idea about which universities offer best work in VLSI CAD domain, have a look at - Pasquale Ferrara's answer to What are the best VLSI CAD research groups in US universities?







If your math is good but verbal is weak then it's clear you've been studying sufficiently hard. More than any of the other subjects, verbal test scores often come down to test taking skills, guessing strategies, and other little bits and pieces.Since you probably have limited time and anyone else probably interested in this question also has an abbreviated schedule - let's assume it is too late to consider learning any new skills or committing an extensive amount of information to memory. So you must only spend your time on things that may directly affect your score, and avoid activities with sharply diminishing returns (like memorizing vocabulary flashcards).Since the GRE is multiple-choice, think in terms of gambling odds instead of information mastery. Your goal is to maximize the 'return' on the information you already have, especially by avoiding common mistakes that have nothing to do with your level of knowledge.Preparing for the format Time is one of the most crucial resources in any standardized test and managing it badly can cost you. You should prepare yourself to spend the minimum amount of time per question without rushing. Whenever I'm preparing for a serious multiple-choice test, I'll write out how much time I have per question – assuming there is about 10% less time than has been allotted. This leaves me a nice margin of error, and if I encounter a difficult question that I do not think I can answer I know to advance as soon as my allotted time has passed.  If I need to return to the question I'll mark the exam and come back during the 10% of time I left myself at the end. This prevents you from missing points on questions you never even read (because you ran out of time) and helps a lot with the 'stress' of getting stuck. Having some pre-prepared notation to tell yourself  which questions to return to and how sure you were about the answers is a good idea.(This second point is not advice in the strictest sense but may be more like a general way to think of testing that I teach lot of my incoming college students - apologies if this sounds patronizing.) When you take multiple-choice test it's important to try and remove as much of an emotional response as possible, panic shuns energy away from the brain forces you into instinctual sometimes bad decisions, and introduces a level of doubt that is not at all helpful in taking a test.I refer to my strategy as "betting on yourself". One of the hardest situations for many test takers is once they've narrowed the answers down to 2 choices  and cannot decide between them. I've seen students agonize over this sort of decision for 5+ minutes, only to erase the correct answer right before turning in their exam.Instead of allowing emotion, stress levels, and any sort of mind game problems are having into the testing process have some faith in yourself and move forward the best you can because there's no room for doubt. When you read the question think about what the correct answer is and if you see an answer that matches that you can be pretty certain that that's the one. If you are stuck between answer choices think about it, take a deep breath and go with your gut decision. Leaders of the markings he can return to this question you want to think it over later but do not allow yourself to miss potentially easier questions agonizing over what is ultimately going to be a fraction of your score.If you're considering changing answer, my rule of thumb is to always stick with your original gut feeling unless you can think up a factual reason related to the subject material that contradicts what you wrote. If it is merely a bad feeling, uncertainty or there is even an answer choice that you may not know the meaning of there's no reason to not go with what you believe, as anything else would be like betting that you made the wrong decision. When I eliminate an answer I completely strike to the answer choice in order to stop myself from reading it later in second-guessing myself, and when I find to answer choices that I think are equivalent I will make a note of it – if there is not in all of the above or both blank and blank sort of answer choice most of the time to provide answers are both wrong.If you get stuck on a question a great way to reframe it for yourself is "what is the test writer trying to determine if I know" sometimes questions that appear to make no sense from one perspective, are in fact very easy if you think in terms of some basic principle of language or literary analysis that they are probably testing. Writing fair, thorough, and reasonably difficult multiple-choice questions is surprisingly difficult art. When I used to teach MCAT as teachers needed to have at least 100+ hours of teaching experience before we were even considered for writing questions for the tests and practice sheets. I remember coming up with multiple-choice quizzes for reading assignments was one of the hardest parts of my job when I taught lab class.Generally the writer has some idea he wants to test, some hoop he wants the test taker to jump through. Look for that instead of spending time looking inward and judging your own lack of knowledge and you will be much more successful.Beyond that make sure you go to the bathroom well ahead of the test time and good luck!edited 6/13 for grammar and spelling.







Last Minute Hacks:Verbal: Solve the sentence completion and skip essay questions till you reach sentence equivalence or vice versa. This way:You quickly score points for questions which are short and relatively easier.You get to glance at each essay within a second to ascertain its rough theme, number of questions ascribed to each essay and so on.And finally, you get to attempt the essays in an informed manner - easier and more question-loaded essays first. This way again, you optimize your time and score.Math: Solve the entire section in rounds. Do not sit on question if it takes more than half a minute for you to understand. Mark it for review and come back to the question later.AWA: Prepare well in advance. All the essay prompts have already been given on the ETS website. Identify the broad thematic areas these prompts and prepare some POVs and examples before-hand. This way you will never go blank whenever you get a prompt.Between sections: Although the GRE tells that you get a 1 minute break screen between (which is true), what they don’t tell you is that the timer doesn’t start until you click the “Continue” button on the welcome screen of the next section. So, take time - yawn, smile, get some rest for your eyes. :)All the best!







Day before GRE examYou have done your utmost to prepare yourself for the big day. The race has been long and you have come very close to the finishing line. You have poured all your energies in meticulously planning for your exam, studied exhaustively and done countless revisions. The last thing that you want now is to ruin your exam performance by any careless slip-up. Now that you are fully equipped to take the much awaited GRE/SAT/GMAT exam ,make sure to follow the right strategy.Here are a few tips that will help you heighten your performance on the D Day:No eleventh hour cramming up: The worst mistake one makes is engaging in crazy cramming sessions a day prior to the exam. It is in fact a time to organize your thoughts and mentally catalogue everything you have learnt so far.Last minute study does you more harm than good as your brain needs some time to assimilate fresh information and reproduce it at the right time. Moreover your short term memory gets blocked with new information and obstructs long term memory recalls.Spend time oiling your brain : Your brain to needs to unwind just as your body does. This helps in enhancing your focus , attention span and information retention. Taking mock test a day before the exam can be counter productive . Also the last 48 hours are not suitable for gathering new information rather it is time to consolidate the information already gathered .Refresh information on exam format : You might have already acquainted yourself with the test format but it is always a good idea to refresh your information so that you can easily anticipate test pattern ,be mentally prepared and forestall probable test comprehension glitches.Get a comforting night sleep : In order to regulate your sleep-wake cycles you ought to lay out a healthy sleep plan and religiously stick to it at least a week prior to your exam . Your mind needs to be fresh , alert and at peace on the exam day so make sure you retire to bed early the previous night . Taking unnecessary stress can lead to mental exhaustion and deplete your physical energy level as well. Just take a chill pill and do not let fatigue get the better of you.Make a list of essentials to be carried to the centre : Remember to carry your duly signed legal photo id ,admission ticket and additional clothing to the test centre . Carrying an extra layer can come handy as the temperature at the centre may be lower than what your body is accustomed to.Keep instructions on way to tests centres handy : It always pays off to get directions to your test centre beforehand so that you are not ruffled with last minute hassles of locating your centre. Also keep some buffer time in hand for unpredictable traffic snarls.Do not overindulge in greasy grub : Start eating as light and healthy as possible a week before the exam to stave off any chances of falling sick due to wrong intake . In an attempt to feel better and combat anxiety, test aspirants at times tend to gorge on high carb and oily fast food. This is not just heavy on their stomach, but also results in fatigue and weariness.It is rightly said that Calmness is the cradle of power . Cool and composed mind is a sure shot sign of a true winner. It is therefore important not let your anxiety bouts overpower you. Make the most of your preparation by projecting a calm mind set and confidently put your best foot forward.For more information on GRE/TOEFL/IELTS/GMAT, please visithttp://www.collegepond.com/Interact with students on our Facebook groupMS in US 2019 || CollegepondCollegePond







Trick that worked for me was::1. Try to convince your mind to dettach itself from each passing question by internally chanting:"Be in the Moment" after each question which helped me to focus on current question rather than worrying about upcoming questions or recalling what glitches I made in previous questions.2. Atleast 3 Mock up tests should be taken before exam day to evaluate your capabilities. Because these exams are just a measure of your capabilities. If you score less in mockup then you know on which section you need to work on and also be alert on them in final exam.3. Magoosh App for Verbal Recalling and Self prepared cheatsheet of handy quant formulas or fundamentals.4. Don't discuss your preparation work before exam because it would generate pride in you and with pride sometimes over confidence build up which badly impacts your timings in exam.5. Set predefined time limit for each type of question, because if you give more time to one specific question then you will loose time on all upcoming questions.For example: assign only 1.20min to each question, go to next question even if you can't answer current question within assigned time. At last you will have time to return to this question if you already plan some 15mins as Buffer time.







This might be counterintuitive and I only prescribe this if you've had earlier experience working the night before exams. I was awake until 3am on my GRE day. Completed Barron's 333 and revised Barron's 1100 during that stint from 9pm to 3am. Worth mentioning, I got a 166 in Verbal and 170 in quant. But I screwed up AWA section and can attribute it mostly to lack of sleep.Lastly, I see many demoralising answers. Don't let these guys get you and be super confident tomorrow.







Getting tired before your exam is the worst thing you can do. You’re just increasing the odds that you’ll make a silly mistake, thus wasting the time you spent prepping for challenging questions.Best Last-Minute GRE Hacks:1. Know the format of the GRE backwards and forwardsThe GRE is a multiple choice test. Calculate how much time you have per question, and then give yourself slightly less time, on average, to complete each one. When you notice that you’re spending too long on a question – skip it and make a notation so you can remember to come back to it later. Don’t allow your self to waste time on hard questions when you could be getting more questions right.2. Trust in what you already knowAbove all, stay calm! If you’re reading the question, and you have an idea of what the answer is in your head, look for that answer in the choices. If it’s there, then go with it. If it’s not, then eliminate any answer choice that is definitely wrong. If it’s a 50/50 guess, it’s okay to go with your gut unless you have a factual reason to go with the other answer. Don’t second guess yourself, and don’t spend too much time on questions that are too hard or confusing. Come back to them if and when you have time at the end.3. One Week Until the GRE TipsKeep the intensity high and continue to study. If you are unsure what to do in your final week, here are some suggestions:Take a practice test 5 – 7 days before the actual exam so that you can practice your pacing and build up your stamina for the long test ahead. Make sure to include all the essays and an experimental section too.Review your notes, especially problems and concepts that you have struggled with. It’s important to have everything you’ve learned fresh in your mind on test day.Any practice you do at this point should be timed.Work on your weaknesses as much as you can.4. GRE Tips and Tricks for When You Have One Day LeftDo nothing! That’s right. It might seem counter-intuitive and it might seem like the last thing you should do, but you need to rest up for the big day. Cramming is not going to help you one bit on the test.No test preparation all day! Seriously!Eat a large, healthy, leisurely dinner—no alcohol!Lay out all that you will need for test dayGo to bed earlier than usual.5. The Day of the GREABSOLUTELY NO LAST MINUTE TEST PREPARATION!Eat a large breakfast, full of protein.Do relaxing, fun activities to pass time until the test.Light exercise is a great way to burn off anxiety and prime your mind for the test.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.Vijay,Alumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT







No, a GRE score is not mandatory for admissions in MS courses in Canada. However, it completely depends and varies with the course of study and university that you are applying to.In addition, if you wish to have an edge over the other applicants in terms of the impression your student profile makes, then a good GRE score will be useful for you.In fact, most of the top universities recommend you to have a GRE score for admission into their MS courses.Hope it helps!







I will respectfully disagree with those who state that the GRE is not necessary.The answer I would give is “it depends”The specific program will define if the GRE is required, or not.For example, ECE at UBC “"strongly recommends” it for foreign students. Minimum Requirementsif I were applying to that program, I would certainly take it and submit it.CS at UBC does not even recommend it.SFU clearly states that it is required by some programs (Simon Fraser University)Thus, you should check the requirements of the specific program. Do not assume that anyone on the internet can give you a definitive answer to such a program specific question.







Well it depends on University you are applying to. Some universities clearly mention that it is mandatory to get admission where as some universities states that they encourage applicants from outside Canada to submit GRE score in order to enhance their profile. Overall, if you are having low GPA then good GRE score can somewhat help you to improve your profile and chances to get admission.







Yes,for those who are seeking admissions in top 5 universities of Canada..otherwise it's not compulsory..you can get admission by giving IELTS only..so work on your academics and your speaking,listening,reading and writing skills and try to get around 7 or more in IELTS then you will have a great chance of securing admissions.All the best..!!!







GRE is not at all mandatory for Canada. Most of the Canadian universities ask for IELTS/TOEFL. However there are some universities which might ask for GRE score. Almost all U.S. universities require to have GRE score.For further assistance you can visit our website: www.westernacademy.co.in







It depends on the school you're going to apply. As per my knowledge GRE is not mandatory for colleges. However, some universities will ask for GRE score and also it'll give you plus point to your resume. As I got admission from University of Ottawa, GRE is not mandatory but if you wrote, they'll consider the score and kept in your file and evaluate that scores also.







I will share my preparation journey.I started with a mock test, provided for free by ETS, in mid July for assessing my as is status. I got 315 (163 Q + 152 V). I then scheduled my GRE in mid September i.e. exactly two months later. This decision was based on the number of discussions I have had with my seniors who had already aced GRE.Since my vocabulary was limited, I started by religiously following Word Power Made Easy by Norman Lewis (Buy Word Power Made Easy Book Online at Low Prices in India). It took me a month for mastering all the words mentioned in the book. In the next month I started with the word list provided for free by Magoosh App (GRE Flashcards - Android Apps on Google Play). I aimed at completing a set of 50 words daily. I used to write them down on a notebook and revise them every three days. I would mark the words which I forgot often and then in subsequent revisions, I would only focus on the marked ones.In addition to building my vocabulary, I also perused through the verbal material provided by ETS and Manhattan Prep (Manhattan Prep GRE). I found the Manhattan material to be quite useful when it came to tackling verbal section questions, especially the reading comprehension ones. I also tried Kaplan and Barron’s materials but found Manhattan one to be superior. Moreover, buying Manhattan books gave me access to their GRE Test Series, which included 6 tests. I used it for giving a mock test every weekend (total 6 weekends) for assessing my progress. The tests are good replica of the actual GRE, however they don’t grade your AWA section. Nonetheless, they helped in identifying my weak spots and take corrective measures.I never separately focused on the quant section and had only practiced it during the mock tests.Time spent:Vocabulary- 3.5 hrs per day for 6 days a week for 8 weeks i.e. ~170 hrsReading material- 10 hrs in totalMock test- 4.5 hrs per week for 7 weeks i.e. ~32 hrsTotal time spent ~ 212 hrs i.e. 26.5 hrs per week.Important learnings from the experience:Vocabulary is really important for cracking the GRE Verbal Section, however just cramming the words is not going help. One needs to learn the applications of these words, which comes from practicing in form of mock tests and practice exercisesPatience is quite important. Learning 50–60 words daily can be tiresome and irritating especially when you’re from engineering background. Moreover, the time and effort put in on daily basis doesn’t immediately reflect on the weekly tests- at least it didn’t happen with me, I scored less than 320 in the first 5 tests. It was only the last two tests when I scored close to 330. Hence, one needs to consistently keep putting efforts.







GRE PREPARATION STRATEGYTry to follow this Chronological GRE Preparation Strategy~First of all take a Diagnostic Test, available at ETS. Analyse your Scores.This Score will give you an idea of your strengths and shortcomings. You should plan and devote time for your GRE preparations accordingly.The GRE Quant tests your basic level of Maths, Specially for Engineering students. You should aim for a full score 170 in Quantitative section. This would help in increasing your overall score.The main area of Concentration is the Vocabulary and RC in the Verbal section.You should Download these two Apps for your iOS/Android device- Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flashcards & Barron's 1100 Words. These are well organised Apps for GRE Vocab Building.An average student needs 300 hours of GRE Preparation to aim for 300+ Scores (I'm not considering the Super Kids who write GRE in 15/20/30 Days & get 320+ Scores). You should calculate you time that can be spared in Weekdays/Weekends for GRE prep. This way you can estimate your tentative date for GRE Exam. Generally 3–4 months time is enough for Preparation.Spare another 20–30 hours for writing Full-length tests, in the last week of Preparations.Some Important points to Consider before GRE PreparationsYou should do initial research for Specific MS programs. Shortlist Universities in Ambitious & Safe categories. Check their required GRE scores & plan your Preparations accordingly.Start your GRE Prep at least 8–9 months before the start of Application window. So even if you don't get your desired score, then also you have enough time to rewrite it.By the time of your GRE exam you should be in a position to shortlist the Four Universities where you are going to send your Official GRE score for Free. Else you will land up shelling extra $ for sending your Official score.Remember you need another Substantial time to complete the other parts of Application like Transcripts, SOP, LOR etc.If you are looking for Financial Aids & Scholarships then you should be able to apply at the earliest (Preferably when the Application Window opens). Earlier applications gives you a lot of Funding opportunities & it's it's for you to take decisions in picking up the best admits (College Reputation & the Financial Aids).I would Not suggest you to have a Counselor before your GRE scores. However you can join a GRE Coaching (Weekend/Online) if needed.“Don't Practice until you get it Right; Practice until you can't get it Wrong !”All the Best. Keep Rocking!~ Dr SSR.







Step 1 - Take one/two/three diagnostic tests. Look for pattern to assess your strengths and weaknessesStep 2 - Make a comprehensive preparation strategy. On areas you are weak ( 0 to 35 % proficiency ) focus the maximum. On the areas you are strong but not yet thorough ( 36 to 67 % proficiency ) focus on reducing your pitfalls. On the areas you are quite thorough ( 68 % to 99 % proficiency ) focus on perfecting your skills and accuracy.Step 3 - Take one/two / three assessment tests. look again for patterns to see if there are any changes in your performance.Step 4 - You may repeat Step 2 based on inputs from Step 2Step 5 - Full Length tests mimicking test circumstances I recommend about 5 testsStep 6 - Take the GRE test/ repeat Steps 4 and 5Between Steps 1 and 2 , if you find you are fundamentally weak in any area, you may need to take some foundation training ( either self/ guided )Remember heavens will not fall if you dont score your best in the GRE but should you not have the satisfaction that you did the best you can to score the best you can. I think that sense of ‘ having tried one’s best’ is important.Also remember this is just the beginning of a long list of occasions where you must do the best you can. One thing is certain. You will grow as an individual.All the Best !!







I have mentioned the pattern and some simple strategies that can help you for your preparation;PATTERN (VERBAL, QUANTITATIVE and AWA)VerbalGRE (Reading Comprehension, Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence)Further for GRE, kindly note that for Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence, one needs to have a very good knowledge on the vocabulary and its usage as well. It is not the knowledge of word list alone but its application too is very important.Please Note that the difficulty level for Verbal in GRE is Very Difficult.QuantitativeAlgebraArithmeticGeometryMiscellaneous (Permutation, Combinations, Counting & Probability and Coordinate Geometry)Data Interpretation (Includes Statistics as well)Please Note that GRE Quant is basic 10th standard maths and much much easier. So kindly brush up your basics.Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)In AWA, GRE students are tested on“Analyze an Issue” [30 mins] in which they have to discuss their opinions/give their ideas on the topic“Analyze an Argument” [30 mins] wherein they are expected to identify the Flaws).IMPORTANT INFORMATIONGRE scores are valid for 5 years AND is a Standardized Test. Since GRE test is standardized, the questions are predictable.Simple strategies but could prove to be very effective:Please follow 20 mins strategy. Prepare seriously for 20 mins and then give a small break. Break depends as you can take a 1 min break to an hour. It solely boils down to you. With this strategy, even if you prepare for 10 times a day (10 x 20 mins = 200 mins = 3hrs 20 mins); then you would be able to put in 3hrs and 20 mins of valuable effort. More importantly, you will not have any starting problem as some students struggle to even start.Further, keep yourself fit by doing meditation, yoga and exercises like walking, running etc to keep yourself fit. Staying fit helps you in enhancing the body & mind and in turn helps in increasing the concentration level.Have a clear goal for your preparation. Work everyday with a plan. Systematic and consistent preparation helps you a lot. More importantly, learn it with passion. If you learn with passion, then you can enjoy studying and not creating self inflicted unwanted stress.Clear Plan and GoalI come across students at times who say that they want to do this and that and so on. Have a clear plan, stick onto your goal and learn with passion. You can then achieve what you want.Self Study or Joining Online/Classroom CoachingOne always has an option to go in for self study. But that requires a high level of self motivation, sheer hard work and lots of time to understand the concepts.In turn, if you join coaching institute, it really helps you as you get to learn from the expert faculty in respective areas and it helps you to save a lot of time, as understanding concepts can take time. Further, you tend to learn tips, strategies and short cuts from the faculties.Further for preparation, student can choose online coaching. But then, the rigor of online and classroom coaching definitely differs. Coaching institutes play an important role in imparting strategies and giving a systematic structure to the student.Other than this, student should be sincere to classes and must put the best effort as their is no substitute for hard work.Factors to be Considered for Classroom CoachingIf someone has to choose coaching institute, then the factors to be considered are1) Faculty profiles (that also include qualifications) [In my opinion, that's one of the most important factor],2) Small class size i.e Faculty : Student Ratio (Even this is a very important factor)3) Materials,4) Online Test SeriesOnline test series, personal guidance from expert faculty etc will be missing if you were to prepare on your own.Take Mock TestsFurther, take lots of Mock Tests (after your preparation) and do a lot of self analysis after each and every test. Through this, you would be able to analyze your strengths and weakness. More importantly, you will not repeat the same mistakes again.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.VijayAlumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT







Gre is based on two important factorsverbalQuantsIn verbal it is diificult to crack reading comprehension.For that u can refer to this site RC GRE: RC Step MethodIt helped me a lot for my RC prepartionsFor text completion and SE one should have a good grip on words .One can use Magoosh free app and also their preminum account Magoosh Online GRE Prep.It has the perfect plan for gre and also creates a step by step study plan to crack gre ! Magoosh GRE - Study PlansIf Magoosh GRE doesn't improve your total score by 5 points on the revised GRE scale, they will give you a full refund!QUANTSone of the easiest parts of gre but one should avoid silly mistakes to get a perfect score on quants !6 DI questions on GRE has to be solved carefully they are one of the easiest but also tricky :PA time mgmt has to followed in GRE QUANTSQC part of GRE is both tricky and easy ,but it has to be managed carefully !One can refer The official guide to gre Buy The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition Book Online at Low Prices in IndiaSolve powerprep 1 and 2,It is close to actual gre and no other mocks is anywhere near to power prep .Dont waste time on unecessary mocks !







There are a lot of ways to prepare for GRE, however I am using the SMART Objective way in helping me prepare for any exam.Identifying the SMART Objective of your GRE Preparation would somehow look like this:S - Specific: Your end-goal should be stated, for example: Be confident when taking the GRE exam because I have prepared very well, studied every topic and even had practice tests to enhance more my skills. It should include the “W” questions: Who? What? Where? When? Which? and Why?M - Measurable: A proper schedule should be created and maintained. Establish a concrete number - how many number of words would you like to master? How many weeks would you like to spend for each GRE section? How will I determine if I have accomplished it?A - Achievable: A schedule with defined time and activity is something needed for preparation. Make sure that the words you wanted to master and the time you want to prepare would be achievable. Also, practice as many mock test as possible to avoid cram during exam.R - Realistic: Provide each list of words a realistic time to finish. Let’s say a list of 10 words can be mastered in 3 days or maybe a week. That includes reviewing it through games/the help of vocab app. I suggest you use Preped Vocab - for free. (But that depends on you)T - Time-based: Schedule, schedule, schedule. :)For more help, we have asked a couple of GRE tutors and authors with the following questions. You may click on the following to see the video interview and hear them out.What Is The Best Approach In Preparing For The GRE?How To Avoid Cram While Preparing For GRE ExamHow To Get Used To Stress and Time Pressure? (Quantitative Section)Helpful Tips For Anyone Interested In Taking The GREAre Practice Tests Harder Than The Actual Test For GMAT or GRE?Bonus: The Best Strategies for Recall (Vocabulary Section)







Dear GRE Aspirant,The main purpose of GRE is to judge your proficiency on the basis of the mathematical, logical and verbal aptitudes. Graduate schools use GRE to assess your readiness to undertake a full-time Graduate Program at a university abroad.While numerous books have published by various sources that act as appropriate training material, there are a handful of books that give you a detailed conceptual learning.Some of these are:#1 The Holy Book: The Official Guide to the GREThis must-have book while preparing for the test is the one straight from the test makers - ETS. It gives you a comprehensive overview of the entire test as a whole and helps you to get a better hang of the test format, pattern and question types.The Official Guide explains everything about the test in detail from the different question modes, scoring and time systems, the purpose of every section, the section descriptions and the question examples in each section distributed by difficulty level. It comprises of the GRE Math Review and there are practice questions at the end of each Math section of this review. In addition, the Guide comes with 4 practice tests – 2 paper based and 2 computer based that are in the CD that accompanies the book. While this book is the most authentic source for all sections of the test, it seriously lacks the practice questions in number and difficulty levels too. You can use this Guide to gain an overview of the tests, however, using only this book for the test could be a serious drawback due to lack of practice materials.#2 The Holy Trinity: Official Super Power PackThis set does its name complete justice – it is indeed the Power Pack that comprises of the aforementioned Official Guide along with two more books for extensive practice.You can gain a very serious understanding of the questions that will be in the test and also practice them in plenty using this aptly named power pack. Since this is an official source, all the information will be related to adequate practice and strategies to solve difficult questions. It would not cover some essential time-saving tricks that will help you get an upper hand in the test#3 The Heavyweight Champion: Manhattan 5lbAnother aptly named test guide, the Manhattan 5 lb is a book that actually weighs more than 5 lb. It comprises of practice materials for each section that has been segregated according to the topics.This book can prove to be immensely helpful in making the concepts concrete through the massive selection of practice questions and the detailed descriptions for the answers. Also the book helps you get familiar with some tricks that will prove essential on the test day – for both Quants and Verbal. Many test takers have claimed this book to be as close to the actual test as anything can be. However, if you are looking at it from a study or introductory guide’s point of view, you would be disappointed since it for practice only.All in all, it’s a guide that you would approach after you are sure of your primary study and are confident of solving the questions.#4 Make your own Menu: Manhattan Prep's 8 GRE Strategy GuidesAnother one of Manhattan Prep wonders – there are 8 guides however this time instead of 5lb worth of practice data all in one. It also comes along with 6 computer based practice. As opposed to the 5lb, this book has divided each and every component of the test into 8 different books that again in a contrasting move to the 5 lb book – have detailed description of the concepts, the different question types for these concepts, the detailed answers and tricks for solving these answers successfully and in a timely manner. Do note that this book focuses more on the theories and solving techniques and the practice questions are comparatively lesser in number. You can choose the concept that you are lagging in and study it using the specific guide.#5 The Beginner’s Handbook: Cracking the GRE Premium by Princeton ReviewThis handbook is more like an introductory manual for the GRE. It is a complimentary book to the Official Guide and it provides a lot more theoretical data. It comes along with 2 computer based tests with detailed explanations and includes access to the online video tutorials of Princeton Review.However, that is all that it is – a book for the beginners. The fact that the book consists mainly of general overview is a serious drawback. You would need to practice for the GRE using alternative sources since the book lacks extensive practice materials.#6 The All Inclusive Trifecta: GRE Complete by KaplanThis Kaplan Prep system comes with the 3 books – Quants, Verbal and Premier (tests and strategies); an access to the online question bank, 5 practice tests, an online study plan and lastly a CD with information about the tests and grad school application process as a whole.This set is indeed a thorough guide to the test and lacks neither the practice data nor the explanatory data. The partially paper based and partially computer based data makes it a very conveniently adaptive format of study.However, the book seems to lack adequate number of questions for the quantitative section.#7 Know your numbers!: GRE Math Prep Course by NovaThis book, as the title suggests, concentrates only on the Quantitative Aptitude section of the test.While there are other, more comprehensive and all sections inclusive books published by Nova (eg. GRE Complete Prep Course), Nova press is best known for this Math wonder. It includes the concepts broken down into categories that are essentially created by them. It helps you know the type of strategies necessary to tackle your weak areas and practice the same using a plethora of available questions. Also, the questions are broken down by the difficulty level which makes it easier to track the level of progress. Extra sources for Verbal would have to be referred since this specific book is limited to the Quant section only.#8 Know your words!: Barron’s SourcesUnlike the Nova book, Barron’s publishes study material mainly for the Verbal section – the vocabulary related data.While there are a number of books that you can refer, Barron’s GRE is the most popular book which is an advanced guide to practice the tougher questions from all sections. Besides this, Barron’s is reputed for the vocabulary related data it publishes like the word lists that based on the frequency of the words on the tests like Barron’s 333 and Essential Words for GRE. Barron’s is one source that would be trickier for those who don’t have their basics in place or those who plan to prepare last minute.Even though a lot of books might help you in your GRE preparation, it is always advisable to have a study plan that will help you differentiate your stronger and weaker areas.While books might help you with concepts, it is always better if you get personalized attention for GRE as you can immediately clarify all your doubts as and when they arise.Make it a point to choose the best method of learning and this will help you score high.According to me, to prepare for an online test, methods with online preparation and actual test experience providers is very important. Check GREedge for GRE and Admission guidance to score better GRE scores and best Admits.All the best and Happy learning!







GRE Preparation Books and GRE Study Materials:Educational Testing Service (ETS): The conducting authority of GRE, ETS produces some of the best GRE preparation books. In fact, ETS’s official GRE study materials are must buys for every GRE aspirant. The advantage of preparing from ETS guides is that the sample papers and practice sets are in sync with the actual GRE test. The best in the series is of course the ETS super power pack which includes a bundle of verbal and quantitative GRE preparation books, test preparation materials, expert tips among others. Besides, ETS offers a comprehensive guide which aims at clearing conceptual doubts of the sections.List of ETS GRE study materials:Official super power packThe Official Guide to the GREThe Official Guide to the quantitative reasoningThe Official Guide to verbal reasoningManhattan prep: Manhattan prep’s books are some of the most popular GRE study materials for GRE aspirants.Of course, like in ETS you can go for the whole set or individual GRE preparation books. The Manhattan Prep GRE set includes 8 guides ontopics likeWord problems, decimals, Number properties, algebra among others.A word of caution here-Don’t use the Manhattan prep GRE set as a last minute study tool. This comprehensive set should be a part of your elaborate preparation strategy while you are attempting the topics.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Manhattan Prep:5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems500 Essential Words: GRE Vocabulary Flash CardsManhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesKaplan: Study abroad exams and Kaplan go hand in hand.The education provider has not only been guiding students in their preparation but also offers a wide range of GRE study materials for students preparing for the test. Kaplan’s most popular package is an annual GRE Premier and GRE Complete. Kaplan’s GRE premier has an incredible 2200 practice questions and 6 full length practice tests. Further, it also includes an online QuizBank which has 500 questions for the aspirants to solve.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Kaplan:GRE Premier 2016 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Premier 2017 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Vocabulary FlashcardsGRE Math WorkbookGRE 2017 Strategies, Practice & Review with 4 Practice TestsBarron’s: Known as a master test prep provider, Barron’slist of GRE preparation books offer a comprehensive set of tips and practice tests for GRE aspirants. Barron’s GRE is of course the most popular of the lot. Currently, in its 21st edition, the GRE study materials contains strategies for all the sections- verbal, analytical, and quantitative along with model tests and answer keys. What more. Barron’s GRE study material also gives the buyer free access to its GRE online courses including practice questions and video tutorials.Virant: Vibrant brings out one of the few good GRE preparation books which cater to the analytical writing section of GRE. The most popular of the lot is the latest edition of Vibrant’s GRE Analytical Writing, which offers very simple and clear strategies to ace this section.Best part about these GRE preparation books is that they offer sample essays on topics similar to that which come in GRE tests.GRE preparation- Online and practice sets: There are many GRE study materials available online that students can use besides books. In fact, you have the option of downloading pdfs on the various topics. You can even take mock tests online to check your time-management skills. You can either download the materials or buy online preparation kits Besides that, you can also refer to IELTS preparation sample papers.







You should definitely get the ETS Official Guides for the GRE if taking the exam before August 1 or Revised GRE if taking the exam after Aug 1.Barron's has been and still is great for their list of vocab words.  A common misconception is that the new/revised GRE doesn't test vocab.  The revised GRE does test vocab, however it's vocab in context meaning that you will have clues from a sentence to help you. So Barron's is still a good bet.The GRE Big Book (again by ETS) is arguably the best source of practice questions for the GRE. It contains over 5,000 questions from 27 actual tests.  The major catch is that it's not longer sold by ETS, but you could search for used ones. I've seen them go for as much as $300.Outside of books, online/computer-based tools are also great for GRE prep as they provide an experience more similar to the actual exam than books do.  Again, ETS is the best source of questions with their Powerprep (for the current GRE) and Powerprep 2 (for the revised GRE). But Powerprep lacks explanations to questions.  My company, Magoosh (http://gre.magoosh.com), has online products for both the current GRE and the new GRE with video explanations for most questions.  There are several others with products for the current GRE and I have yet to see another company with a new GRE online product with the new question types.I'd suggest using a combination of books and computer-based tools to prep. And using the Powerprep tests to assess your progress.







Recommended Books - These books are highly recommended for GRE preparation, listed with their pros and cons -1) The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test. By ETS.A must have because right now since ETS is more knowledgeable than any one else about the new format of GRE.Includes around 100 sample questions organized according to difficulty level.Has real essays written by test takers along with the ETS people’s evaluation and comments.2) Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesThese books are great.Majority of them (6 out of 8) are devoted to math: Algebra, fractions, geometry, number properties, word problems and quantitative comparisons. The practice questions in Math are divided into three sections easy, medium and hard.There are two books devoted to the verbal section: Reading comprehension and Text completion & sentence equivalences. The books dealing with verbal section consists of more challenging questions than what actually appears in the test.The interface is very similar to that of the actual test, and so is the difficulty.3) Barron’s New GREA good book for Quant.Does not have the word listYou can download the word list online or xerox it from an old Barron’s.Includes sample tests.Also includes a CD with stimulated tests (around 2).Other Books - The above mentioned books are actually enough for all the preparation you will need. But if you want some more books for extra practise, consider the following -3) Cracking the NEW GRE by Princeton.A good book for practice. Nothing special though.4) Kaplan NEW GRE PremierI have not used the book personally, but my friends swear this book is the reason they score high in their exam.Apart from that, I recommend getting your hands on the following too -(i) Nova GRE Math Bible (softcopy) - Excellent for math preparation. Has 1000s of questions organized according to difficulty levels and topics. Must Have!(ii) Voca Game based on Barron’s Word List - An excellent refreshing multiple choice game where you need to guess a word’s meaning. Has ALL Barron’s Words.(iii) Big Book (softcopy) - This book had a lot of old GRE papers but is now out of publication. Even though it has old GRE questions, they really help you increase your reading speed for RCs and test your words memory as well.You will also find the following online resources handy when preparing for the GRE -1) Practice tests and resources for high school, college and graduate tests - Though their RCs section has weird questions and answers.2) Home | Tyrannosaurus Prep - A fun word game for GRE and SAT though don’t rely solely on it to learn words as they do not have even half the important words that are present in Barrons. YOU CANNOT ESCAPE BARRON’S WORD LIST.Other Tips for GRE -Apart from that, here are some tips that you might find useful during your preparation-Preparing by yourself is absolutely fine. But if you do want to join a class, join Princeton/Kaplan classes (Quite expensive though). Or prepare on your own. Certainly doable.You need at least 2-3 months of preparation.Verbal preparation and memorizing words consume 80% of the time for most students. Start with high frequency word lists (around 500 words) to remember the important words first. Easily available on net. Then go on to Barron’s 5000 words list.You need to do Barron’s 5000 word list at least 2-3 times to remember most of the words.Don’t ignore math. Students often loose a lot of marks due to silly mistakes.READ THE QUESTIONS PROPERLY! Don’t ponder too long on a question though. Mark it for review and move on!







Attending school, we often forget about an appropriate time for learning. How long you should study for the is an important consideration. However, there is no one simple answer. The Graduate Record Exam (GRE) is an exam taken by college graduates who are applying to graduate school. The GRE General Test is composed of three sections: verbal reasoning, analytic reasoning, and analytic writing. The four books listed below offer instructions on how to complete each section of the test, strategies for being successful before and during the test, and practice questions to get you ready for test day. While there are a lot of study guides out there, these four are the top in the industry and earned the reputation they deserve by providing high-quality material that prepares students for this important exam. With one of these books and some hard work and dedication, you can be on your way to earning a high score on the GRE and entrance into your graduate school of choice. Click https://pro-homework-help.com if you need help in study. If you are a quantum physicist with a penchant for vocab who enjoys spending your time, solving convoluted math problems you do not need much time for preparation. If cramming means two to three weeks, then you don’t have to be our aforementioned quantum physicist. For those that are relatively adept at math, you can score well with little preparation. Preparation for the test will depend on the amount of time you have available and your personal preferences for how to prepare. When taking the computer-delivered GRE General Test, you are free to skip questions that you might have difficulty answering. The testing software has a "mark and review" feature that enables you to mark questions you would like to revisit during the time provided to work on that section. The testing software also lets you view a complete list of all the questions in the section on which you're working, indicates whether you've answered each question and identifies the questions you've marked for review. The GRE is broken down into three primary components: verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, and analytical writing. For the verbal reasoning section, test takers have two 30-minute periods to answer two sets of 20 questions. Test-takers answer two sets of 20 quantitative reasoning questions, with 35 minutes to answer each set. The analytical writing section consists of two essays, for which test takers get 30 minutes to write each. The verbal and quantitative reasoning sections are graded on a 130- to 170-point scale in 1-point increments, and the analytical writing section is scored on a 0-6 scale in half-point increments.Every student decides what he or she needs for an exam, what resources are better, etc. Many GRE test takers are many years removed from the basic tenets of high school math, which play an important part in the quantitative section of the test. If you're rusty, it's important to revisit the concepts of algebra and geometry that you learned in high school. During your time in school, be sure to read as much as possible to expand your vocabulary so that you can decipher unfamiliar words, testing experts say.ETS: GRE The Official Guide to the Revised General TestEducational Testing Services (ETS), the maker of the GRE, offers the only official guide to the test. Known as the authoritative guide to the GRE for good reason, because it's made by the same company who creates the test, it is one of the most recommended test-taking guides. This guide has a good reputation because they can prepare you for exactly what you should expect on the test. This guide comes with four complete real test (two are available using the included CD-ROM), hundreds of authentic test questions, detailed descriptions of the Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning Content Areas including tips for answering each type of question, and an overview of the two types of Analytic Writing Tasks you will encounter on the test including scored sample responses with actual raters' comments.GRE Prep 2017 with 8 Practice TestsTest Prep (Argo Brothers) Lot of practice questions. It's like condensed form of Kaplan with useful information. Good book if you want to practice lot of questions in 1-2 weeks. It has lot of typos as reported by some users but highly recommended. If you have any questions or if you need any clarification on any problem then you can submit a free ticket on their website (it's a free service)Manhattan PrepManhattan Prep, a leader in test-taking readiness, offers a wide range of products to help you prepare for the exam. They offer 8 test-taking strategy guides, focusing on each of the tests content areas including Algebra; Fractions, Decimals, & Percents; Geometry; Number Properties; and Word Problems. Also available from Manhattan Prep is the book "Reading Comprehension & Essays GRE Strategy Guide," 500 Essential Words: GRE Vocasbulary flashcards, and more.Barron's GRE: 21st EditionBarron is a name that is well-known in the testing industry and their GRE preparation book stands up to the name. This 624 page book comes with one diagnostic test and two full-length models of the actual test structure reflected in the GRE exam. Additionally, not only are all answers provided for the sample tests but Barron provides explanations for the answers as well to help you fully prepare for what you will encounter on the GRE. With purchase of this book you can access to Barron's online GRE Course and ipad app for essay preparation.Kaplan's GRE Premier 2017This comprehensive new package includes strategies, test taking instructions, and practice questions to help you tackle this difficult exam. This book also includes a digital iPad download and DVD and online access to 22,00+ questions. It offers 6 online Practice Tests. You also get free DVD and mobile application to study. This book is stocked with a wealth of test-taking strategies to ensure you are successful. Kaplan also provides academic support from faculty on their Facebook page and a guarantee that if you use their resources and strategies you will score higher on the GRE General Test or receive a full refund.Best GRE Books 2016 – 2017 | GRE Book ReviewsWhile here at Magoosh, I’ve reviewed the all best GRE prep books over the years. Today, I’m happy to announce that I’ve made some updates to our Best GRE Books List! While not all of these books are from this year (some are far from it), the list offers my honest GRE book reviews and recommendations for the best GRE book options on the market.Best GRE Books 2016 – 2017It’s 2016 and, to be honest, not a lot has changed in the GRE prep book landscape in the last few years. This is good news for you—you can head to Amazon and buy inexpensive (new or used) versions of many of the best GRE books below and know that you’re not sacrificing quality for price.In this post, I list the best GRE prep books on the market and explain the positives and negatives of each. If you’re just interested in reading about one or two, use the links in the Table of Contents to jump to that section of the post.Best GRE Prep BooksWithout any further ado, I present you with the list of the top 8 best GRE prep books (in order) and three books deserving of an honorable mention (in no particular order).Most publishers change very little content from one edition to the other. If I can save you money by recommending an old edition of a great book, then I’m going to do that!1. Magoosh GRE BookBetween the covers, this 468-page book packs more than a hundred practice questions accompanied by comprehensive explanations—all pulled directly from our renowned online GRE prep product. Not only is the book loaded with tons of useful information, but each question and answer has been triple checked by industry experts to maximize students’ learning.2. Free GRE eBooksTangible or not, the eBooks are free and they provide a wealth of helpful strategies. Along with the rest of Magoosh’s free GRE resources, they are a great way to start your GRE journey, before deciding on which book to purchase.3. ETS’s The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test, 2nd EditionThis is the holy grail of prep. If you can only buy one book, this is it. The tone of the voice may not be as friendly as almost any other book on the market. But if you can bear the dry content, you are getting by far the best practice since ETS writes the questions for the test.Throw in two GRE computer-based tests, which are in a CD that accompanies the book, and the best GRE book on the market gets even better.4. ETS’s Official GRE Verbal Reasoning Practice Questions & Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning Practice QuestionsThe strategies are nothing new (you can learn all of those from this blog), but this book is a must-buy, if only for the quality of its practice questions. The Quantitative Reasoning book, on the other hand, contains both helpful practice problems and useful new strategies. A word of warning: these new math problems are really challenging. They’ll definitely require some extra attention, and will help you up your quant game.5. Barron’s 6 GRE Practice TestsThis book is not perfect. But it is better than the Barron’s general GRE guide.6. Practicing to Take the GRE General Test, 10th EditionThis is a version of the old GRE, and the old, old GRE at that (the tests were taken from 1991, a year some of you had yet to enter the world). Yes, the math is much easier. Still, these are questions created by the writers of test, so the traps are classical GRE. I wouldn’t use this as a foundation for my GRE test prep, but check out the review to see if it’s a good fit for your studies: Practicing to Take the GRE, 10th Edition Book Review.The Reading Comprehension passages are still tough and make for good practice. And while they’ve cut the Antonym and Analogy sections, the antonym questions still make for good practice (the analogies contain many ridiculous words, such as names of tools and sewing implements).7. The Manhattan GRE Series (MGRE) – Books One Through EightThs series contains eight (mostly excellent) books written by those with years of tutoring experience. This fact really shines through in the authorial voice this series uses. You feel as though there is a highly intelligent, but fun, laid back tutor walking you through the material.The six free online tests you get by simply buying any one of the eight books makes MGRE a no-brainer if you want expert guidance and great practice.8. Vibrant’s GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to Real Essay Topics BooksBook 1These books from Vibrant Publishing GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to Real Essay Topics and GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to the Real Essay Topics – Book 2 are a welcome addition to the GRE literature scene. Not because they’re perfect, but because they contain GRE sample essays … something few books have. They’ll help you craft a decent response to a range of GRE essay topics. Not required reading, but definitely helpful if you want to improve your essay score.GRE Book Honorable MentionThis book is generally substandard, and if after reading my review (see below), you are surprised I’m pairing it with this top five list, then I owe a quick explanation: the inclusion of the The Princeton Review book speaks to the generally low quality of GRE prep books out there.9. The Princeton Review, Cracking the GRE, 2017 EditionThese strategies are mostly absent from the Official Guide (though I share similar strategies in the eBook and on the blog).That said, two major caveats: Do not use this book if you are looking for a high score. The strategies are very generic; they apply to most standardized tests, and they won’t help you understand the nuances or advanced concepts in the GRE. Secondly, do not do the questions, unless you are scoring way below 50% and are just starting off on the GRE. From this book glean some helpful strategies that you can use on actual test questions. Otherwise, this book is not of much use.Since this book remains almost exactly the same from year to year, here’s the review of an older version: Princeton Review: Cracking the New GRE 2012 Book Review10. Kaplan New GRE Premier 2011-2012 Book ReviewThe 2014 Kaplan book is no different from the previous two years. Test prep strategies that are very high-level and not that innovative, followed by subpar questions. That is, these questions aren’t like what you’ll see test day in terms of difficulty or style. It’s better to not waste one’s time with this book.McGraw Hill’s New GRE with 8 Practice TestsHere are dozens, if not hundreds, of GRE books on the market. Good luck!







For all those who are preparing for GRE / TOEFL exams, Here's a collection of all materials (Books, Notes, Videos, Audio) I used.Simple steps1. Go to link - ETS-material - Google Drive2. Download the zipNote - Since file size is large, download can take considerable amount of time.PS - If you have more notes and want to share, send it via mail.GRE materialTo answer your question, these are some of the GRE Books5lbMagooshNovaETS Official GUide to GRE 2nd EditionGruberBarron's GRE 12th EditionPrinceton WordsPrinceton Review - Verbal WorkoutRS Agarwal Quantitative AptitudeManhattan GRE 2nd EditionGRE Practice TestBigBookCracking the GRE 2013 EditionSeries501 Series (includes Reading Comprehension, Sentence Completion, Quantitative exams)800 Series (Verbal tests)Essay preparation, Math Review booksWord Power Made Easy solutionBunch of Word lists -ManhattanBarronKaplan84018533000#GRE #TOEFL #ETS #Preparations #Masters







1.ETS official guide to GRE revised General Test and Official GRE Practice QuestionsThe must-have books for any test-taker. No other publisher beats the questions coming from the people who make the test. The official guide should be your primary reference for understanding the types of questions in different sections.2. Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesThese books are awesome. First of all, the majority of them (6 out of 8) are devoted to math: Algebra, fractions, geometry, number properties, word problems and quantitative comparisons. The practice questions in Math are divided into three sections easy, medium and hard. There are also two books devoted to the verbal section: Reading comprehension and Text completion & sentence equivalences. The books dealing with verbal section consists of more challenging questions than what actually appears in the test. Keep in mind that these books aren't going to teach you math or English. Their sole purpose is to remind you about enough of the tricks required to do well on the GRE test. Another advantage of these books are that each of them comes with 6 online tests which I would definitely recommend taking. The interface is very similar to that of the actual test, and so is the difficulty.3.Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problemsBuy this book if you want to practice more challenging problems in Quant section.4.(Optional)Manhattan Prep LSAT Reading ComprehensionI had trouble with RC section from the beginning of my preparation. Even though this book is for a different exam, it actually teaches you how to approach a passage. This one helped me tremendously in improving my skills for tackling a passage. I would recommend this book only if you are facing serious trouble in the Reading comprehension section.For complete review of all the GRE books available in the market, check this linkNew GRE Book Reviews - Magoosh GRE BlogAll the best!







Well the GRE is a unique exam in the sense that you can't really “prepare” for it. There is no fixed pattern or repeated questions. What the GRE really tests is what you have learnt right from elementary school.For the verbal section, I'd suggest start reading magazines like the Scientific American or the Economist every day for a 30 min. Do this for atleast 2–3 months before your exam. I didn't rote learn any words. What I remembered was in what context the word was used. Trust me, this is a better way than memorizing words from apps and flashcards.For Quants, I used the Manhattan strategy guides. Go through them once and solve the corresponding sections in the Manhattan 5LB book. The 5LB book is good for verbal too.Finally, don't forget to solve atleast 5 mock tests because they'll build up your endurance. Trust me the GRE is really tiring.







Thanks for the A2A!There are a lot of answers to this question and I can see most of them have covered the more popular books on the market. It makes little sense then to discuss books, instead let’s talk about the other resources available to you.GRE Diagnostic Tests: If you’re just starting your preparation, a good (free!) resource you should be taking advantage of is a diagnostic test. This will tell you where you stand currently and which areas require more focus. This is important because it’ll help you streamline your preparation and ensure you spend time only where time is needed.GRE apps: Another great resource I think should be mentioned are GRE apps. Considering how much time we’re likely to spend on our phones on a regular basis, this seems like a terrific option. Accessible anytime, anywhere. You could start with the GRE Test Prep app by Galvanize. It comes with hundreds of GRE questions, excellent explanations to answers as well as a system to track your readiness/progress. And it’s completely free. If you’re looking to hone your verbal skills in particular, there are apps for that as well. Ultimate Vocabulary Prep and GRE Flashcards are some of the more popular apps for the same.GRE forums: For invaluable information from your peers and experts all over the globe, a forum is an absolute no-brainer. You can post questions on anything GRE-related and hope to receive answers. These forums are curated to cater specifically to a GRE-curious crowd so you can be sure to find something of value whenever you need it. Some of the more popular forums include GRE Prepclub, thegradcafe, urch etc.GRE Videos: Make the most of all of the free videos available on YouTube that offer explanations and tips for topics ranging from Permutations & Combinations to Analytical Writing Analysis. Looking for ‘hacks’ on acing the GRE? There are videos for those as well.As you can see, aside from books, there are plenty of other resources you can and should rely on to give yourself the best possible chance at a high score.I hope this was helpful to you!Good luck!







GRE Preparation Books for General (Verbal & Quant)ETS’s Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test 2nd Edition: This book should be referred to by every student who is preparing for the GRE exam. Test takers recommend that aspirants should not even miss out on a single page while studying from this book. Published by those who have created the test, this book contains four, solved tests. Two of these tests are available on the CD-ROM. This GRE preparation book features extensive list of problems on Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning.Barron’s New GRE 19th Edition: This is also a well-written book for GRE preparation. It contains two full-length study models and one diagnostic test. The full length study models are designed on the actual structure as seen in the GRE exam. This book has included the revised study content which was developed by the test makers. The book authors have also provided insight into some important chapters as well as test overview for students to better understand how to attempt the test.Kaplan New GRE Premier: This is a comprehensive book to study for Verbal and Quantitative Reasoning. This book covers a wide range of practice problems, test taking tactics and strategies.Princeton Review: Cracking the New GRE as the book title suggests, this book aims at acquainting students with the revised GRE syllabus and includes detailed answers for all questions.Gruber’s Complete GRE Guide: This book has ample problems on Quant but only a few on Verbal Reasoning.Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy Guides: This is another must-have GRE preparation book for all test takers. The book contains 8, well explained, strategy guides for the test attempt.GRE Preparation Books for QuantMcGraw-Hill’s Conquering the New GRE Math: This book is highly recommended for beginners who can start with the basics of GRE maths problems.Nova’s Math Bible: This book is best to practice some tough, challenging math problems.1,014 GRE Practice Questions: This book contains some easy problems to solve.Barron’s GRE Math Workbook: This book is ideal to practice Quant problems.Kaplan’s New GRE Math Workbook: This book proves to be ideal book to start with basic math problems for GRE. However, you should not rely too much on this one when studying problems of an advanced level.Princeton’s Math Workout for the New GRE: Out of all reference books for GRE, this offers the most extensive problem solving for Quant.GRE Preparation Books for VerbalKaplan’s New GRE Verbal Workbook: This is the best book for Verbal problems. This book surely scores a point over Barron’s book, in terms of how vocabulary is applied to different question types. It provides an additional set of practice problems with different difficulty levels.Barron’s GRE Verbal Workbook: This book contains an exhaustive list of words at the backside. The author also sheds light on reading and comprehension strategies.Princeton’s Verbal Workout for the New GRE: This book provides insight into some proven strategies but contains basic practice questions.There are many resources available to help you prepare for this test. Considering that the GRE exam can impact your life’s decisions, it makes sense to choose a test prep book from people who actually put the test together. A high GRE score is critical to set yourself on your way to gaining admission to the school of your choice.There is no single perfect way to prepare for such an exam. There is also no one perfect preparation course or book. Everyone has a different way of learning and retaining information. So make the right choices of material and courses depending on your goals early on, and you will be fine!







here are some of the best gre preparation books:Magoosh's Free GRE eBooksThe Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test, 3rd EditionOfficial GRE Verbal Reasoning Practice Questions & Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning Practice QuestionsBarron’s 6 GRE Practice TestsPracticing to Take the GRE General Test, 10th EditionThe Manhattan GRE Series (Books 1-8)GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to Real Essay Topics (Books 1 & 2)Cracking the GRE, 2017 EditionNew GRE Premier 2011-2012 Book ReviewNew GRE with 8 Practice Test







To start, be sure to get ETS's Official Guide for GRE. For extra practice questions, ETS (the test maker) has a quant-only book and a verbal-only book, each with 200 questions. You'll also need a resource with some sort of instruction. The one that's best for you will be the one that best suits your learning style. We have a free GRE video course you might want to try. Finally,it's a good idea to have some kind of Study Plan. We have a free one here if you're interested - http://www.greenlighttestprep.co...Cheers,Brent







A2ANo ! 319 is not enough for MS in CSE at these schools. You might get an MS/MEng at these schools, but not in MS in CSE, given most of the Indians apply for MS in CSE only to the US. I know one of my acquaintance getting CMU for MEng in Civil for 318 (170/170 Q, 148V, 101TOEFL, BTech IIT BHU). But I do know an acquaintance who didn't get Stanford and MIT for MS for a GRE score of 333 and TOEFL 117. He was AIR 300 something in JEE and 9.3+CGPA at IIT Delhi. In short, GRE alone will not decide your admit. But given the pool of highly qualified candidates already available for these universities (you mentioned), you might not even clear first round of filtering. Either apply to universities suitable for your score or consider re-taking GRE. I don't know about rest of your profile, so this is what I can tell you based on GRE score alone. For further idea, you may refer to GRE Universities - Revised GRE UniversitiesBest wishes !







Good/ Bad is a very relative term. This depends on where you want to go and what you want to do. If you are targeting a top 20–30 Universities then this is indeed a low score. Again you have to bear in your mind that US Universities do go through your whole profile so if you have a really good profile throughout or some really interesting projects or SOP, recommendation letters they will surely consider you.All the best.







Hi A good score is one that takes you to the school of your choice. GRE score is a part of your overall application and the importance of the score varies from program to program. Some schools simply require you to take the test and don't give much importance to the GRE score. On the other hand, some schools consider the score deeply for the admission and grant purposes. Assuming you score equally in both verbal and quant, 290 will imply a percentile below 30 scaled score. I suggest you to research more about the program you are interested in. You may contact the school and check how does the school interpret the GRE score. Doing so will give you a clearer insight into knowing if 290 is a good score. :) Best!Dolly







319 is definitely a good score in GRE. Having said that, your preferred major and the kind of universities you wanna get into matter a lot when answering this question. Overall, with this score, irrespective of the major, you should stand a good chance in most of the good universities, even some of the top most universities provided you have an overall good profile( undergrad percentage, publications, work experience if any, extra curriculars, SOP, LORs and TOEFL). All the best!  







NCSUThe average GRE scores (percent scoring below) of international applicants recently admitted to graduate study in the Department are: Verbal Reasoning 64%, Quantitative Reasoning 94%, and Analytical Writing 42%. The average GRE scores of recently-admitted US applicants are: Verbal Reasoning 77%, Quantitative Reasoning 81%, and Analytical Writing 57%. All three sections of the GRE are considered when evaluating applicants.Source NCSU/CSC:Graduate ProgramCornellApplicants who have taken the GREs and are accepted into the program almost all have a Quantitative score in excess of 740, have scored in a high percentile in the Analytical Writing portion, and have above-average Verbal scores.  Median scores of recent MEng class:  680 (165) Verbal, 800 (166) Quantitative, 3.50 Analytical.Source Admission - School of Operations Research and Information Engineering - Cornell EngineeringUPenn.Average GRE Scores Test Master's students GRE Verbal 155GRE Quantitative 155GRE Writing 4Source Class Profile: 2014-2015Nothing officially given by UW-MadissonHowever even if you achieve these scores theirs no compulsion that you will get selected. Selection process depends of various other prospects as well such as your academic profile etc.







Hello,Thanks for the A2A.Instead of sounding ambiguous- I would have to concede that it's indeed a poor score- try to retake it. You haven't mentioned the break-up of your individual section scores- the Quantitative part; the Verbal part; and the AWA part. Secondly, what kind of universities/schools are you targeting? Be confident, practise well and attempt the GRE again- you will come up trumps!Best Regards,Srinivas.







299 can't be called a decent score in general, but it really depends on for which course in which university you are applying and how impressive your profile is.GRE is kind of a screening test. Universities screen applications on the basis of GRE score.Most Good Universities ask for a score above 320 only then they'll open your file.Some other good Universities combine your GRE and some other scores into a consolidated score to screen applications.After the screening it all depends on your profile, your achievements, the SOP etc.If possible, try to get a score above 320, otherwise, you can probably still get admission in Northwest Missouri State University at this score (for example).







A score above 310 in the GRE is considered to be good. But, to use your GRE scores to your advantage, you will have to ensure that all the other components of your application support them. For example, you must write a good essay, while following certain unsaid rules related to them. Get yourself a genuine recommendation letter from an eligible recommender, who knows you pretty well. In short, avoid any type of error or casualty in your application. Good guidance from experienced people can help you ensure that you give your best. You can fetch some really good help from the following link. Admission in Top Graduate Schools in USA.







I would not recommend joining a coaching center for GRE preparation. Prepare on your own. All they do is teach you some strategies which can be learnt by going through any one of the quality books available in the market.Concepts:I would personally recommend Manhattan series(8 books) to cover all the concepts, strategies and the different types of questions for both quants and verbal.Practice:Quants:Manhattan 5lbOfficial GuideOnce you finish 5lb and OG, you can try Nova. If you finish Nova and have plenty of time with you, then you can solve pretty much any book that you can get your hands on.Note: GRE quant is easy but very tricky after a certain point, that is, if you perform well in the first section. If a question is taking you a lot of time then, probably, it means that you are doing it the wrong way. It is very important to approach a question correctly so that it can be solved in the least amount of time possible. The only way this can be developed is via practice. You can also refer to GMAT books(GMAT Official Guide, Manhattan GMAT guide etc) to help you with this as GMAT quants are generally trickier compared to GRE. Also, keep a tab on your mistakes and avoid making the same mistake again.Verbal:Manhattan 5lb, GMAT OG, GRE OGWords: Use Magoosh appDo not concentrate on mugging up words. Instead, read articles from quality sources such as The Economist, NYT, etc. It will help you develop your vocabulary as well as stamina to grasp long and dense passages. Coming to sentence completion, it is vital that you carefully choose the options that make the most amount of sense and fit the context. If you just blindly mug up words, it will NOT help you in this section. You have to read the sentence first and choose words that fit the context. You will develop this only with practice and reading articles from aforementioned sources.Long story short, the more you read and practice from quality sources the better you will be in this sectionFull length Tests:Lastly, I would advice you to give at least 10+ full length tests. Believe me, this is one of the most critical aspect of preparation for the GRE.P.S: If you really want to join a coaching center, I would recommend you Magoosh. Not only do they provide you with quality strategies and tutorials but also tons of questions along with video explanation for each of them.Moreover, they cover all the topics unlike many of the books available in the market. It's really worth it.BEST OF LUCK!!







Hello there, As suggested by the other posters, there are multiple options for test prep in Bangalore. At the end of the day, how effective a program is boils down to a few key things.Teaching philosophy of the institute (do they only cater to high scorers, or do they only focus on strategy etc.)Expertise of the trainers (have they been taught to merely deliver a templated course or are they people who have taken the tests themselves and have mastery over the subjects)Quality of the courseware and the computer based tests you receive.When you’re picking a coaching program, figure out the following things:1. Sit through a session of the teacher you are likely to study under (as a demo).2. Ensure that the Study materials are industry standard; you don’t want to be practicing / learning from a spiralled copy of the CAT / GATE tests - you won’t see good results through that.3. Seek word of mouth4. Check out their policy on post-class support. Will teachers provide support up to the day of the test, or will they abandon you as soon as their classes are done?5. Make sure that the practice resources and full length tests emulate the actual GRE. Again research online to find this out.If you find that a training program checks off all these items, then go ahead and enroll. You’ll definitely see improvements in scores. At the end of the day go with what your ‘gut’ tells you after evaluating all those aspects discussed!That said, I am cofounder of PlusPrep, a test prep company. These values form our core principles and we strive to provide the best in world preparation experience and mentorship to each of our students at affordable prices. Do get in touch with us if you want to have some of the best teachers in India work with you on your GRE preparation!Godspeed!







In my opinion Byjus is the best for Gre preparation.The best of byjus is the teachers who teach you the course. They are themselves the toppers in Gre exams. Verbal part is taken by P.N.SANTOSH who has got 338 out of 340 in Gre Exam and He is having a mathematical approach to solve the Reading comprehension section. He know how to take you from the basic to the very high level. Byjus classes is using the technology well, if technology is available why you want to waste it. You will not get this kind of teachers anywhere in other coaching institutes. If you are a person who is self motivated then you join byjus as you will not be having anyone to monitor your performance . If you want someone to push you always join other institutes.Join byjus if you want to learn lots of shortcut techniques and bell the Gre Exam.







TL;DR - Go for GREedge.Now the long story.Before getting into the debate of which coaching institute is best for GRE, let us look at the ingredients of a good GRE score.Start with a diagnostic test.Just like a medical test, a diagnostic will help you identify your weaker areas in GRE. It will tell you where do you stand in your preparation. The score you get in a diagnostic test is what your current GRE score would be. Don't worry if your diagnostic store is low. This is just the start point of your preparation. You got work to do from here.Make a proper study plan.GRE isn't as gracious as your semester exams when it comes to scoring good marks. Only proper practice and preparation will take you there in the GRE. Hence an organized study plan. Keep your diagnostic test score and target score in mind and prepare a proper study plan. Make sure you make a plan that doesn't disturb your daily routine (college or work)Review your progress frequently.Divide your preparation in sessions of an hour or two. Have targets of finishing a certain portion every session. Once you finish the session, review your performance thoroughly. Identify the mistakes and rectify them (very important). Find out the solutions to the questions you were unsure of. Then practice again. Keep a check on how you are progressing.Make your learning fun. Use picture based wordlists.Sooner or later you are going to get bored of your preparation. So it is always recommended that you make your learning fun. Don't go for those long & boring alphabetical wordlists. Picture based wordlists will help. It will make your preparation enjoyable. This way, you'll keep yourself motivated for a better score.Take as many practice tests as possible.GRE is an online adaptive test. The difficulty level changes with your performance. You need to get used to the GRE like interface even before you take the exam. GRE style tests and practice tests a good way experiencing the GRE before the actual GRE. It will give you a hands-on experience of the exam, which is very important especially in GRE.Get guidance from an expert.For things like AWA, you'll be needing the help of an expert. Because let's face it, one cannot evaluate his own essays. An expert has to look at it and give you suggestions and tips on how to improve your essays. You'll hardly find AWA tips in any books and most coaching classes ignore the AWA section. A good score in AWA is of high significance during admissions. Spend some extra time and effort on it.These are the basic requirements of a good GRE score. If you follow these steps properly, reaching your target score will be a walk in the park.Btw, one such institute I can think of, which provides all the above, is GREedge. Good thing is that they are online and you can study any time you want, anywhere you want. Moreover, they provide personal trainers, who will monitor your progress continuously.It saves travelling time and doesn't interfere with your work or college.Your Step by Step guide to GRE SuccessThanks for the A2A Divya Nadhella :)







If u prefer self study and looking for good study materials for your prepartion that can fetch u a good score in GRE then have a look on the below mentioned materials.I assure the quality of the materials is top notch.Pdfs include:-1 - The Princeton Review - Cracking the GRE premium 2018 edition2 - Manhattan latest - 4th edition (8 books)3 - Barrons new GRE 19th edition4 - Kaplan GRE preparation 2019 - latest edition.5 - Grubers Complete GRE Guide - 4th edition.6 - ETS official Guide to GRE7 - ETS Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning practice questions8 - ETS official GRE verbal practice questions9 - ETS GRE BIG Book which include 27 test with answers.10 - Manhattan preparation GRE Flash cards (1003 pages)11 - 501 series which include:-501 Critical reasoning questions501 Reading comphrension questions501 Grammar and Writing questions501 Sentence completion questions501 Synonyms and Antonyms Questions12 - GRE verbal made easy by barron13 - Word lists by majortest. com (15 pdfs)14 - Common error in english usage15 - Manhattan prepartion 5lb book of GRE practice problems.16 - The Ultimate Guide to GRE Alzebra which include 700 real GRE questions with lucid analysis.Arithmetic which include 1250 real GRE questions with detailed explanation.17 - Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flash Cards.18 - Master the GRE CAT by Acro Petersons.19 - Wren and Martin20 - RS Agarawal Quantitative aptitude21 - ETS paper based revised GRE practice Book.22 - Mcgraw's Hills GRE premium total test preparation program 6 practice tests.23 - Novas GRE maths Bible24 - Word Power made easy25 - SP Bakshi objective General English26 - Kaplan GRE writing wokbook- 3rd edition ( 844 pages)27 - 15000 useful phrases.28 - Magoosh Complete Quant covering 900+ questions with detailed answers.29 - 501 Word analogy and Writing Prompts.30 - GRE flash cards31 - 3 model question papers of GRE by Ramki's Ultimate Guide.32 - Magoosh 580+ Quant Questions with answers33 - Barrons GRE high frequency 333 words Vocublary list.34 - 100+ Novels35 - English Grammar secrets by Caroline Brown and Pearson Brown36 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Advanced words Flash cards.37 - Kaplan GRE verbal book38 - The Princeton Review word smart for the GRE.39 - Memory techniques by Krupa40 - Magoosh basic Quant,verbal,Awa etc videos.41 - The Ultimate Guide to Analytical Writing which include:-* Essays on Issues - Lesson and Model essays on 50 Topics* Essays on Arguments - Lesson and model essays on 10 topics.42 - Sample SOP and LOR43 - list of Universities which accept GRE.44 - Barrons Audio Vocabulary ( 14 audio clips)45 - Kaplan writing topics46 - ETS mathematical conventions for the Quantitative Reasoning Book47 - The GRE uncovered - Introduction to GRE by Manhattan48 - Flash cards of Barron 320049 - Magoosh 1000 pdf of common high Frequency words.50 - 501 Quantitative Reasoning questions with answers51 - 1000 Reading comphrension1000 Sentence correction52 - RC 99 by Aristotle53 - Ace the GRE writing Assessment by Acro Petersons54 - VISA Preparation55 - Vocabulary with Pictures56 - KAPLAN Quantitative Reasoning57 - Cliffs Test preparation GRE CBT ( 6th edition)58 - Guide to Geometry which include 8 identified categories with 1240 authentic examples.59 - Barrons GRE common prefix with meaning and illustrations.60 - Ample amount of practice materials for AWA and verbal.61 - Aristotle GRE verbal GRAIL.62 - Nova's GRE prepartion course63 - Princeton new GRE verbal workout64 - Ramki's The Ultimate Guide to Verbal reasoning which include:-Reading comphrension - 380 real GRE questions with answersText completion - 435 real GRE questions with answersSentence Equivalence -120 real GRE questions with answers65 - Magoosh Complete guide to Vocabulary66 - Barrons 6 GRE practice tests.67 - Kaplan GRE Premier with 6 practice tests.68 - ETS GRE general Test Practice book69 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Maths flash Cards (998 pages)70 - GRE full tests for Practice ( 36 Tests with answers)71 - 1014 Practice questions for the new GRE by Princeton Review72 - Manhattan New text completion supplement73 - A student's introduction to English Grammar by Rodney Huddleston and Geoffre K Pullum.I am selling the above mentioned materials at a very nominal amount of Rs 200.U can pay through any of these mobile wallet:- Paytm,Bhim, Phonepe,Tez etc.So interested one (only Indians) can ping me on Whatsapp 7737428150.







I suggest you to first check out Magoosh GRE, before looking for coaching centers. Continue reading and you’ll know why I’m suggesting you Magoosh as best GRE prep.From the above screenshot you can see that you get Realistic Score Predictor (my friend had scored exactly as predicted by Magoosh) along with timing. They have more than 200 lessons and 1000+ questions with video explanations for each, which you can watch as many times as you want. All the lesson videos range from basic concepts till advanced level required for the test. The number of questions appearing from each topic will be clearly mentioned so that you can practice that specific topic more and score high.As you can see in the above image, you can even customize your Unlimited Practice Sessions/Tests.For practice sessions, you canChoose section ( Verbal/ AWA / Maths)Select subjects/topics as per your wishYou can even select difficulty level as Adaptive — just like in real GRE. It even has easy/medium/hard difficulty levels.You can select from different question pool like Unanswered, Answered, Incorrect or Flagged.You can flag questions/lessons while practicing.Select Number of questions for a practice session.Practice with/without time limitation.Select Quiz Mode/Practice Mode.From the above features you can focus in which ever topic you want, whenever you want. You can’t get all these advantages if you go for coaching centers.For every question, you get all the options that you can see in the above screenshot. You can compare your pacing with others’ pacing. It even has an on screen calculator/ timer — just like in real GRE. Each and every video lesson and question explanation video has option to take notes which will be helpful during revision. They even clarify doubts through emails if you have any doubts regarding any question. If you are willing to pay some money, they even have one-on-one session to train you.They have amazing flashcards which have lots of words arranged according to difficulty/frequency level. The flashcards feature is completely free and you can even use in from computer/mobile. They even have android and IOS apps using which you can practice even during commute/whenever you want.To help memorize all those words, I use Mnemonic Dictionary.You can try all the Magoosh features completely free for 7 days and then decide if online course / offline coaching institutes suits you. To get it completely free for 7 days, click on the above link and click signup/try it now. Then, click on “free trial” that is just below premium plans.I hope my answer helped you.







Lyceum in mylapore is the best center for GRE in chennai. Princeton review centres at adyar and anna nagar are good. Apart from that there are few centres like Top Gre and Scoregetter which are reasonably good ( Though not very famous) You can always go with some online coaching like GREedge, Manhattan gre. All the best.







The Princeton Review : Overseas Admissions Guidance - GRE, GMAT, SAT, PSAT, SAT II, ACT, AP, IELTS, TOEFL Preparation







See! Most of them end up going to a particular institute because they have tie-ups with colleges and provide admission guarantee. If you think about it, it becomes a liability on them and they will get you admissions in any of the colleges just for the sake of it. Crackverbal according to me is a good institute as it focuses on giving a better coaching for a less cost and helps in guiding students which shows that they have the best interest in doing what they do.Here are couple of things I chose crackverbal for:1.I personally liked the faculty there as they have got a score more than 320 and are highly qualified.2. The way they approach vocabulary is very different and good.You'll also see the change when you join it; also it came into my budget. So crackverbal it is for me!!!







Princeton Review- No - 42/295, 2nd Floor Mrj Complex, Velachery Main Road, Velacheri, Near Vijaya Nagar Bus Terminus, Chennai - 600042Adele Vistas4GMATAscent EducationThey are all fairly good. If you want more, you may be interested in checking out the site that I work for- Top GRE Coaching Institutes in Chennai







In my personal view, regular classroom/coaching is not the best option. Instead, go for online preparation weather Kaplan , Manhattan or Princeton Review for Mock Tests. For regular practice, the best option is Magoosh- Complete one stop solution.Video tutorial/explanation for every type of question in quants and verbal. Special tips and tricks for AWA section. Moreover, it will keep a track on your practice and will point out your weaker areas so that you can improve timely. Sign up for a trial account, buy it if you like it.Magoosh Online GRE Prep







There are many options when it comes to GRE coaching in Chennai. And I am sure that every institute out there claims to be the best in what they do and offer.What I would recommend that you personally call them or visit the ones you have heard off and look into the service's that they offer and the cost of the program. Look into the reviews and them take a call.You may want to give ScoreGetter a call as well and compare with what others offer and I am pretty sure here you will get quality and value for money, with 14 online tests, 90 hours on the GRE training module and online lectures bundled with free Admissions counselling.Score score getter offers a unique program called the guaranteed admission process. In this unique program called g a p every student who applies is assured and admit into a University that matches their profile along with complete visa guidance to USA, Germany, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Ireland, Sweden and NetherlandsShow more details visit ScoreGetter-Barron’s GRE GMAT IELTS CAT SAT TOEFL PTE USMLE Chennai







I found the "Reading Comprehension & Essays" book in the Manhattan set of 8 very helpful. Here is the link to the books: Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy Guides (Manhattan Prep GRE Strategy Guides): Manhattan Prep: 9781937707910: Amazon.com: Books Check the tips provided in the book and religiously follow it. The most important tip being "Write as many words as you can". Yes! This is very true.For the argument essay, it helps you get prepared so well that you could use the given framework for any essay. It lists down all the flaws that could possibly occur in an argument essay. Once you remember them and practice brainstorming a few topics with them, argument essays won't be a problem anymore.For the issue essay, it tells you what to do and what not to do (like how to take one side and support it, you need to add a rebuttal paragraph or not etc). It helps you understand how to structure your essay. Practice brainstorming! You should have brainstormed at least 25-30 questions in the ETS pool of essay questions. Some general tips (which worked for me): 1) Many words (but do not digress). You can give many similar examples if you have time.2) The question is very important. They all might look the same but there are minor changes in the questions. Make sure you address the question correctly. For example, if the question asks you "To what extent you support" , make sure you answer it that way - "I completely support...." etc. You get the point :). If this aspect is missed, you will get a straight -2 in your essay.3) First, begin with the Introduction, then first paragraph, then conclusion. After that, start adding paragraphs in the middle. This way your essay looks complete even if your time gets over halfway.4) Learn one quote every day. Quotes are really useful and will definitely add lot of value to your essay when used in Introduction or Conclusion. (Remember who wrote the quote as well!)5) Begin with a power sentence or a strong quote. For example. I got the question "Researchers should spend time on things that will help majority of the people only" (something like that). I began it like this "Why spend time doing research on automatic wheelchairs or Prosthetic limbs when handicapped people   are only 10% of the population?". This helps the essay begin with a serious perspective of this issue.6) Practice fast typing. 7) Examples Examples Examples!Good luck :)







GRE is an objective test. That holds true for most part of the test. But the Analytical writing section is subjective and it tests you on several things. AWA or Analysis of an Argument is nothing but an essay question where you are given an argument that might be or not be well reasoned. Your job is to invalidate or validate the argument and its individual components. If you have been writing exams that require detailed answers, you would find the AWA part familiar. It is generally clubbed with the verbal section with regard to preparation for GRE.It’s not a test of your diction. So, if you can use fancy words, this is not the place to exhibit that. AWA is a test of logical comprehension skills and articulation. If you think the author is wrong in his line of reasoning, you bring that out with your reasons. State them. And use this line of thought to extend your answer to a critique of the given argument.The AWA score is an indicator of your GRE verbal skills. A great application essay that looks like it’s straight out of the year’s best seller with a pathetic AWA score clearly tells the university that you have asked someone else to write your application essay. So, write your own essays. And prepare yourself for AWA.Here is a sample argument and question:The following appeared in the editorial section of a monthly business news magazine: “Most companies would agree that as the risk of physical injury occurring on the job increases, the wages paid to employees should also increase. Hence it makes financial sense for employers to make the workplace safer: they could thus reduce their payroll expenses and save money.”Discuss how well reasoned you find this argument. In your discussion be sure to analyze the line of reasoning and the use of evidence in the argument. For example, you may need to consider what questionable assumptions underlie the thinking and what alternative explanations or counterexamples might weaken the conclusion.You can also discuss what sort of evidence would strengthen or refute the argument, what changes in the argument would make it more logically sound, and what, if anything, would help you better evaluate its conclusion.The answer to this would be a detailed analysis of how the reasoning in the given argument is. If you think the given reasons are badly thought out, state that with your alternate reasons and conclude effectively. Do not go out of scope of the argument.







I recently (late April, 2015) took the GRE and got a score of 5/6 on the essay, which puts me in the 93% ile; I did better on this section than the other two, and that was almost disappointing because what I really wanted to improve on was the Quantitative section. In other words, you could say I was too successful. Just to rub it in, I did zero preparation for the writing section, compared to regular drilling for the quant section, spread out over weeks. My explanation for this is is not that I am some kind of gifted writer (I would have known that a long time ago if it had been true), but rather that I have a day job which involves writing. A lot of writing. I write about 3,000 words a day on average and on many days much, much more, and I read and re-read the texts I  produce. I've also written in a variety of forms. The only thing I do more voraciously than writing is reading. If the above doesn't apply to you, then you know what you have to do: find the time to do something that involves writing, writing and more writing. This in fact is my reflection on the GRE as a whole: you can't really study for it the way you would a microbiology final, but you can prepare by practicing in some form or another the skills which the test seeks to measure. I also read somewhere--it must have been on either the Magoosh blog or the Manhattan Prep website--that length is a determining factor in the GRE AWA section, so you will need to be comfortable with churning out a lot of text, fast (an additional consideration, maybe: make sure your typing speed is fast).  If you have a few months, find out what you need to improve on, start waking up really early in the mornings and do that for about an hour. Write letters to your friends, relatives and former lovers; write to your elected representatives, explaining your fears about zoning right and foreign policy; write to mentors; re-discover the art of the email. Speak to your friends and offer to help them read/revise their essays for work and study and life. Just be no-holds-barred about it, and do it.







Crowdsource the GRE Analytical Writing questions over at Quora itself (see Elizabeth Knopf's answer over at What are the best Harvard College study hacks?)Go to the pool of issue topics (over at http://www.ets.org/gre/revised_g... ) and post them all as questions on Quora [1]. They actually make for extremely good Quora questions.One could also do the same for the pool of argument topics (http://www.ets.org/gre/revised_g... ), but that's a bit more difficult.Then chances are that the answers will be so interesting that you'll actually remember them and be a lot more prepared for the analytical writing section on the GRE. :D[1] I already did most of the work though. ;) But not for the argument topics.You could also try it at http://www.reddit.com/r/truereddit and various other subreddits. Or at LessWrong.===Dec 21st edit: Well, turns out that I got a perfect score on the analytical writing even though I was too lazy to practice. I did implement the idea above but I didn't remember any of the answers (most of the question remain unanswered) Honestly - I think that writing numerous answers to Quora posts probably helped a lot.







Since the time limit for each essay is 30 minutes, I’ve found Pomodoro apps to be phenomenally useful. They let you work at a task for 25:00, then give you a 5:00 break. I can’t believe I didn’t think of this the first time I took the GRE. They’re all over the place; here is the one I use: Pomodairo Is a Pomodoro-Based Timer and Task Tracking Tool.The actual questions are available, so there’s no harm in familiarizing yourself with them: Introduction to the GRE Issue Task (For Test Takers) and Introduction to the GRE Argument Task (For Test Takers)Practice as much as you can, but don’t let your work go to waste: instead, save them for your own review, and ask others for feedback. You can use a blog, Reddit, Quora - anywhere online. I’m using quora; here’s where I posted my essay: Are scandals useful because they focus our attention on problems in ways that no speaker or reformer ever could?Sometimes it helps to get feedback from people you don’t know; it being the internet, they’re far less likely to spare your feelings.Eliminate distraction when you’re practicing. Chances are you won’t get to wear headphones, listen to music, or even see the light of day while you’re taking the test - so the sooner you get used to that environment, the better.Some of the other advice offered here is so spot-on, I’m going to paste it below, with thanks and apologies to their authors.From Subbrammanian Nochur Ganeswaran's answer to How can I start preparing for an analytical writing section of the GRE?The question is very important. They all might look the same but there are minor changes in the questions. Make sure you address the question correctly. For example, if the question asks you "To what extent you support" , make sure you answer it that way - "Icompletely support...." etc. You get the point :). If this aspect is missed, you will get a straight -2 in your essay. - EC: This never occurred to me, but now it helps me eliminate pride of authorship and distance myself from the product. It helps me to think of the person reading this not as an adversary or a judge, but as a customer who hopes to be pleased. What I’m writing isn’t necessarily *my* essay, but an answer to *their* question.First, begin with the Introduction, then first paragraph, then conclusion. After that, start adding paragraphs in the middle. This way your essay looks complete even if your time gets over halfway. EC: I love this. I still tend to write an outline first.Begin with a power sentence or a strong quote. YES! Journalists call this the lede — and with a piece this short, it’s true: if you nail the lede, you nail the story.Examples Examples Examples! EC: This is a great way to increase word count. I’m not at all sure what the statistics are on this, but narrative comes more naturally to me than argument does.







Unlike GRE, where you are asked to present your own arguments on the topic, GMAT AWA requires you to critique the given argument.As with other sections of GRE, vocabulary is important for analytical writing section as well. So, start strengthening your vocabulary if it is weak. Buy a good vocabulary book like VoLT or “Word Power Made Easy”. If you use apps, Install and regularly use mobile app VoLT. It uses innovative techniques such as funny stories, life events for quick and easy learning of words![1]Make a habit of reading newspaper everyday, focus on editorials and news that interest you. Observe the strength of reasoning of the article and how various for and against arguments are made and facts/evidence used to support them. Note the stated/unstated assumptions and what alternative explanations or counterexamples might weaken the conclusion. Also, identify any missing points that could strengthen or weaken the arguments. Write a critique for the articles you read using the observations mentioned above.The official website of GMAT provides a sample critique and a list of sample topics here. Initially, practice critiquing these topics without any time limit. Once you are comfortable, write within the time alloted for the section. Get your critiques reviewed online or offline by people who are good in this section and work on improving your weaknesses. Also, there is an official paid online writing practice tool called GMAT Write. Apart from these, ample online resources for analytical writing are available.Footnotes[1] VoLT







Hey Redwan! Thanks for the A2A!Before I start with this answer, I would like to be very straightforward about this that the GRE has no limits when it comes to the amount of types or questions that might come under various topics. But yes, according to most trends till now, there are 3 main segments which can be further subdivided into various topics as below.Analytical Writing : This section accounts for just 6 marks out of the total 340. The small section isn't really “small” when it comes to strength or difficulty of the question. In the first question, the candidate is normally asked to discuss an issue presented in hand. In the second question, the candidate is asked to discuss an argument and present different scenarios according to their analytical ability. In this section, the knowledge of the candidate is of zero significance and all of the marks are awarded on the basis of the Quality of Analysis of the problem.Verbal Reasoning : The verbal reasoning section accounts for a major chunk of the general test. This section generally has 3 parts : Reading Comprehension, Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence.- The Reading Comprehension is basically the major section as it accounts for about 50–55% of the Verbal Section. The easiest trick to crack this sub-section is developing the ability to prioritise the important information from the unimportant and irrelevant information. This helps a lot since the questions asked are not specified to a particular sentence or paragraph of the content but is on the general wide sense of it.- In the Text Completion sub section, one is expected to understand the inference of the sentence that is due and fill in a phase or words to make sure the sentence makes sense, is grammatically correct and converges to general meaning of it.- The Sentence Equivalence section tests if you can understand and produce two similar sentences, different in construction but having the same inference in general. This asks you to select multiple words from the options that give the same final conclusion.Here is a list of TOPICS that generally need to be covered from a syllabus point of view :a) Nouns, Pronouns, Adjectives etc.b) Verbs c) Tensed) Subject Verb Agreemente) Sentence ParallelismQuantitative Reasoning : Another Math-based vast section of GRE which requires a good sound knowledge of High School mathematics and a LOT OF PRACTISE to crack. There are generally 4 sub-sections in this one - Quantitative Comparison, Single-Choice questions, Multiple-Choice Questions and Numerical Questions. This section requires use of a calculator which is provided. The main TOPICS that need special attention are :a) Basic Mathematic Formulasb) Numbersc) Operationsd) Percentage, Ratios and Proportionse) Profit and Lossf) Interests - Simple & Compoundg) Distance, Speed, Timeh) Permutations and Combinationsi) Equationsj) Set theory and Statsk) Probabilityl) Geometrym) Areas and Volumes.This is pretty much it. Please note that all the information above is out of my own rough memory and I have tried covering most if not all the topics. I highly recommend you get the GRE Guide and related books to give you a better idea as this post is merely a go to and the books will be the ultimate helpers and guides.Just an FYI, I do work for an Ed-Tech firm based out of New Delhi, India which is aimed at building awesome careers abroad! Check us out at http://www.leverageedu.comIf you want to take this discussion further forward or you want any help regarding your career, feel free to reach me out at samrat@leverageedu.com







GRE exam/syllabus is always the same for all kind of students of different branches,fields,of any age(whether a person is a graduate,post graduate or has a working experience(at whatsoever designation),etc.GRE is required for masters or PhD.( in case you don't know,extra info) GMAT- masters (for MBA) TOEFL-bachelor's,masters IELTS-bachelor's masters PTE-bachelor's ,masters****Some programs or universities ask for GRE score, some doesn't. Generally, GRE score is required if you are applying to any STEM ( Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics ) program or Business Studies( MBA ).GRE is a computer based test type.Test content- 1-VERBAL REASONING ( reading comprehension,text completion,sentence equivalence)( 20 ques each in 2 sections-30 min each)Reading comprehension - 8-9 short reading passages of 1 para long & will have 1 or 2 questions related to them. There will be 1-2 long reading passages per test which will have 3+ questions associated with them. Questions are multiple choice questions,you are required to choose either single or multiple correct answers as per asked.Text completion- there will be 1,2 or 3 blanks need to fill in. 1 blank- 5 choices to pick from 2 or 3 blanks- each has 3 choices to pick from.Sentence equivalence- you are supposed to select 2 answer choices that best complete a sentence & provide similar meaning/synonyms.2- QUANTITATIVE REASONING( 20 questions each in 2 sections-35 min each)Quantitative comparisonMultiple choice questions with either one option or more than one optionNumeric entry questions.3-ANALYTICAL WRITING ASSESSMENT (AWA)1 one logical argument-an argument is given you have to either write for it or write against it. 2- One critical issue-a topic is given you have to write an essay.( awa - no options are given, 30 min each)Test duration- 3 hours 45 minsTest scores- 340 (quantitative+verbal), awa(0-6), good score 315+ considered.Test scores validity- 5 yearsOfficial scores recieved- online 10-15 days after your test date.Test fees- US $ 195Test conducted- ETS PrometricWebsite of exam conductors- www.ets.org/greWhen is test conducted?- on weekdays throughout the year.Free score reporting at the time of exam - any 4 universities of your choice.I hope I covered enough information incase you need more info or I've forgotten something,do let me know! :)







As per Frequently Asked Questions at ETS Home ...GRE scores are valid for five years after the testing year in which you tested (July 1–June 30). Currently, scores earned from July 1, 2010, to the present are available.







The GRE score is valid for 5 years, but that said I highly recommend people to submit GRE scores that are no older than 2 years.Why? Simple, what you knew 5 years ago isn't valid for what you know now. Your determination 5 years ago cannot be a yardstick for what you are doing right now and have done in this year.That is why universities prefer scores that are no older than 2 years. Also you can delete/remove your past GRE scores, if you dont want it to show in your profile. But the deleted score notification is always posted on your ETS profile and universities can always check it and even ask you about the same. So keep complete transparency and dont take GRE for granted.Make sure to check out our app VOLT on Google play store. It now has over 1.1 lakh downloads and has amazing cool features that will make your verbal section easy and interestingVoLT: Vocabulary Learning Technique , helps student prepare for Verbal and Vocabulary section of competitive exam.Link for download VoLT - Vocabulary Learning - Android Apps on Google Play







Graduate Record Examination (GRE) has always been associated with graduate programs leading to masters and Ph.D. degrees. The recent advancements in the world of test taking or entrance test, the GRE now paves the way for you to apply for an MBA as well. The worlds top business schools view GRE Scores equally with other graduate admission test. It provides schools with an excellent assessment of the skills you need to succeed in MBA and specialized masters degree programs.Accepting GRE score also works in favor of the business schools as they are able to diversify their applicant pool with more candidates applying from varied streams unlike before. The GRE scores too, like the GMAT, are valid for a period of five years.Top Business Schools Accepting GRE Scores







Hi there !For tests taken on or after July 1, 2016, scores are reportable for five years following your test date. For example, scores for a test taken on July 3, 2017, are reportable through July 2, 2022.For tests taken prior to July 1, 2016, scores are reportable for five years following the testing year in which you tested (July 1– June 30). For example, scores for a test taken on May 15, 2015, are reportable through June 30, 2020. GRE scores earned prior to July 2012 are no longer reportable.GRE scores earned in July 2012 are reportable until June 30, 2018.All the best !







For tests taken on or after July 1, 2016, scores are reportable for five years following your test date. For example, scores for a test taken on July 3, 2017, are reportable through July 2, 2022.NOTE: It takes approximately five business days to process requests to send GRE scores. If you plan to send scores and the date at which your scores are no longer reportable is approaching, allow enough time for processing or your scores may not be sent.







According to the most recent information on the GRE website, your graduate record examination (GRE) test score is valid for five years after you took the test. Currently, test scores earned from November 1, 2010, to the present, are still valid.You can find more information like this on the Frequently Asked Questions page of the GRE website.







Thanks for a2a.You can check my past Quora answer.Antra Anapindi's answer to Does preparation for GRE really require going to coaching centres? Would online coaching or self study not be enough?Best of luck.







Based on the material I studied from and few of my acquantaces used , in addition to what could be the better ways of absorbing them :GRE: Primary focus being on English: 1. Word Power made easy. Excellent book and reccomended by almost everyone I asked. It not tell you the word meanings , but roots and lots of practice. Enhances your vocabulary and also builds up your acumen for picking up related and new words faster. Try to start with it asap, doing some sections at a time- as suggested in the book. and see if you can give it a second attempt some time before exam.2. ETS Official guide for GRE : I tried doing a practice paper, initially before starting my preparation. benefit was that I realized which math topics were my weak areas. and what all needs to be covered for GRE in all teh sections.English and Maths sections are actually close to GRE level and should definitely be practiced before exam.3. For word lists I used Jamboree's (coaching institute) word list, which had the advantage of grouping synonyms, antonyms close together so that you can contrats their meaning. there were around 14-15 word lists and I think most of the words in GRE were seen by me in them. Its easier to learn them if you do these regularly and repeatedly. So pick these up asap.Also, these need to go hand in hand with other material , since doing long sets of word together was very difficult for me.4.  other books used by my friend were : Kaplan's (I used it for some excercises and sample papers for english), Princeton Review and Baron for wordlist.Powerprep II software : for practice testMaths : nothing specific just some excercises from sample , review of weak topics from internet or old material.6. AWA: Practice articles from GRE samples and test and looked at some articles from ARCO essay book, but it was too much. read only some articles.7. Also I used some GRE word list practice app on the way to practice on my time travelling. Doing words from multiple source definitely helps by reinforcement.TOEFL:1. Official guide was quite sufficient 2. Toefl software 3. I think I practiced from  Jamboree book on toefl but not too much. Primarily for listening and speaking as far as I remember. but would depend on your choice. I used to record the speaking section and then listen to it. It was quite important because you have to think and write in a very small amount of time. So practice that. Do make points while listening to the recording, so that you dont miss out stuff. Also remember that you would be in a noisy environment, where others would be speaking while you are writing or listening. Bre prepared for that. In my case, I wanted to speak on a topic against the motion, but I heard someone speaking for it and I got distracted and wrote in favour.Hope this helps. Do take in mind the exam conditions at your center. they did affect my performance. But I managed a score of (320+4.5/110)







Disclaimer: This works only if you are willing to give it the time it requires. Please do not expect a quick fix.The thing about the GRE is it's a marathon and not a sprint.The best thing about the GRE is, it can be beaten.Ok enough of the speech and now let's get down to business.GRE has two parts :EnglishQuantitative aptitudeSince quantitative aptitude is quite easy we will talk about it later, though briefly.Now coming down to the English. The thing is you need to master the following to kick ass in the English section.Reading long passages and being able to make some sense out of it.Recognizing arcane words and be able to guess the meaning of arcane words if you are not already familiar with them.We can do both of these thing simultaneously.The internet solves our problem here.We just need two websites to handle this issue.Arts & Letters DailyDictionary / trainer - Vocabulary.comArts & Letters Daily - This is the mother lode of all the best articles on a variety of topics which they collect from the internet. The topics range from science to arts and so on.Vocabulary.com allows you to make word lists and practice them. Yup I am aware many websites let you do this. The catch is the words which need to be added to the list can come from a paragraph.So the trick here is...Everyday you pick up one article from Arts & Letters Daily and read it from top to bottom. Yup it will be hard to grasp, but you will have to deal with it initially. You can go through it a few times to make some sense out of it.Once done you need to copy the whole passage and paste into the word list creator at Vocabulary.com. This will be a holder of the words you did not know. Once it is done you can learn those words and revise them.Now keep adding words to the list in a similar for a whole week.And keep revising them too.After a week make a whole new list, since you don't want the list to be huge. It will be difficult to test yourself over a large list.If done sincerely for a month or two, with minimal effort you'll be kickin ass at GRE English.For quant , sheer practice will get it done for you.I have not given the TOEFL so can't help you there.Cheers..Have fun learning awesome shit.







If u prefer self study and looking for good study materials for your prepartion that can fetch u a good score in GRE then have a look on the below mentioned materials.I assure the quality of the materials is top notch.Pdfs include:-1 - The Princeton Review - Cracking the GRE premium 2018 edition2 - Manhattan latest - 4th edition (8 books)3 - Barrons new GRE 19th edition4 - Kaplan GRE preparation 2019 - latest edition.5 - Grubers Complete GRE Guide - 4th edition.6 - ETS official Guide to GRE7 - ETS Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning practice questions8 - ETS official GRE verbal practice questions9 - Magoosh videos of Verbal,AWA nd Quant (200+)10 - Manhattan preparation GRE Flash cards (1003 pages)11 - 501 series which include:-501 Critical reasoning questions501 Reading comphrension questions501 Grammar and Writing questions501 Sentence completion questions501 Synonyms and Antonyms Questions12 - GRE verbal made easy by barron13 - Word lists by majortest. com (15 pdfs)14 - Common error in english usage15 - Manhattan prepartion 5lb book of GRE practice problems.16 - The Ultimate Guide to GRE Alzebra which include 700 real GRE questions with lucid analysis.Arithmetic which include 1250 real GRE questions with detailed explanation.17 - Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flash Cards.18 - Master the GRE CAT by Acro Petersons.19 - Wren and Martin20 - RS Agarawal Quantitative aptitude21 - ETS paper based revised GRE practice Book.22 - Mcgraw's Hills GRE premium total test preparation program 6 practice tests.23 - Novas GRE maths Bible24 - Word Power made easy25 - SP Bakshi objective General English26 - Kaplan GRE writing wokbook- 3rd edition ( 844 pages)27 - 15000 useful phrases.28 - Magoosh Complete Quant covering 900+ questions with detailed answers.29 - 501 Word analogy and Writing Prompts.30 - Wiley English31 - 3 model question papers of GRE by Ramki's Ultimate Guide.32 - Magoosh 580+ Quant Questions with answers33 - Barrons GRE high frequency 333 words Vocublary list.34 - 100+ Novels35 - English Grammar secrets by Caroline Brown and Pearson Brown36 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Advanced words Flash cards.37 - Kaplan GRE verbal book38 - The Princeton Review word smart for the GRE.39 - Memory techniques by Krupa40 - ETS GRE BIG Book which include 27 test with answers41 - The Ultimate Guide to Analytical Writing which include:-* Essays on Issues - Lesson and Model essays on 50 Topics* Essays on Arguments - Lesson and model essays on 10 topics.42 - Sample SOP and LOR43 - list of Universities which accept GRE.44 - Barrons Audio Vocabulary ( 14 audio clips)45 - Kaplan writing topics46 - ETS mathematical conventions for the Quantitative Reasoning Book47 - The GRE uncovered - Introduction to GRE by Manhattan48 - Flash cards of Barron 320049 - Magoosh 1000 pdf of common high Frequency words.50 - 501 Quantitative Reasoning questions with answers51 - 1000 Reading comphrension1000 Sentence correction52 - RC 99 by Aristotle53 - Ace the GRE writing Assessment by Acro Petersons54 - VISA Preparation55 - Vocabulary with Pictures56 - KAPLAN Quantitative Reasoning57 - Cliffs Test preparation GRE CBT ( 6th edition)58 - Guide to Geometry which include 8 identified categories with 1240 authentic examples.59 - Barrons GRE common prefix with meaning and illustrations.60 - Ample amount of practice materials for AWA and verbal.61 - Aristotle GRE verbal GRAIL.62 - Nova's GRE prepartion course63 - Princeton new GRE verbal workout64 - Ramki's The Ultimate Guide to Verbal reasoning which include:-Reading comphrension - 380 real GRE questions with answersText completion - 435 real GRE questions with answersSentence Equivalence -120 real GRE questions with answers65 - Magoosh Complete guide to Vocabulary66 - Barrons 6 GRE practice tests.67 - Kaplan GRE Premier with 6 practice tests.68 - ETS GRE general Test Practice book69 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Maths flash Cards (998 pages)70 - GRE full tests for Practice ( 36 Tests with answers)71 - 1014 Practice questions for the new GRE by Princeton Review72 - Manhattan New text completion supplement73 - A student's introduction to English Grammar by Rodney Huddleston and Geoffre K Pullum.I am selling the above mentioned materials at a very nominal amount of Rs 200.U can pay through any of these mobile wallet:- Paytm,Bhim, Phonepe,Tez etc.So interested one (only Indians) can ping me on Whatsapp 7737428150.







For GRE:1. 1100 Word List by Barrons. Excellent method to teach word usage and not just word alone. I got only 2 words which were not in actual exam. GRE test you word usage and not just vocabulary [1]2. ETS Official guide for GRE: None of my practice RC were as difficult as actual GRE. ETS guide comes close to it. Must have. 3. Powerprep II software: Whatever you score in Powerprep II, you can expect + or - 4 in actual exam. I got one question similar to a question I got incorrect in Powerprep II. I quickly solved that question in exam because I was able to recall why it went wrong in Powerprep II.4. Manhattan 5 lb. : Enough material to practice and master Quant. The verbal section has excellent explanation.Remember, if you want to score well in GRE, try to avoid mistake. I learned much through my mistakes rather than correct answers. I used to maintain an Error Log, writing why a question went wrong. Then I tried not to repeat at least that mistake.For TOEFL:1. Official Guide to TOEFL (although I didn't follow it)2. The TOEFL software that comes along with Official guide is what I used to learn. 3. Videos by Notefull were really helpful, as I learned to create template for my response [2][1]http://berta.ir/wp-content/uploa...  [2]NoteFull TOEFL Mastery







GRE Math Review TopicRelevant Section on Khan Academy SiteARITHMETIC1.1 IntegersArithmetic: Multiplication and DivisionArithmetic: Negative Numbers and Absolute ValuePre-Algebra: Factors and Multiples1.2 FractionsArithmetic: Fractions1.3 Exponents and RootsArithmetic and Pre-Algebra: Exponents, Radicals, and Scientific Notation1.4 DecimalsArithmetic and Pre-Algebra: DecimalsAlgebra I: Ratios and ProportionsSee "Rational and Irrational Numbers" subsection.1.5 Real NumbersArithmetic and Pre-Algebra: Negative Numbers and Absolute ValuePre-Algebra: Applying Mathematical ReasoningSee "Inequalities: Greater Than and Less Than Basics" subsection.1.6 RatioAlgebra I: Ratios and Proportions1.7 PercentArithmetic and Pre-Algebra: DecimalsALGEBRASections 2.1 through 2.9Algebra I: Introduction to Algebra2.1 Operations with Algebraic ExpressionsAlgebra I: Multiplying and Factoring Expressions2.2 Rules of ExponentsAlgebra I: Exponent Expressions and Equations2.3 Solving Linear EquationsAlgebra I: Linear equationsAlgebra I: Systems of Equations and Inequalities2.4 Solving Quadratic EquationsAlgebra I: Quadratic Equations2.5 Solving Linear InequalitiesAlgebra I: Linear Inequalities2.6 FunctionsAlgebra I: FunctionsAlgebra II: Functions and Their Graphs2.7 ApplicationsPre-Algebra: Applying Mathematical ReasoningAlgebra I: Ratios and ProportionsSee "Advanced Ratios, Proportions, and Rates" subsection.2.8 Coordinate GeometryAlgebra I: Two-variable Linear Equations and Introduction to FunctionsAlgebra I: Systems of Equations and InequalitiesAlgebra I: Quadratic Equations2.9 Graphs of FunctionsAlgebra II: Functions and Their GraphsGEOMETRYSections 3.1 through 3.6Geometry: Introduction to Euclidean GeometryGeometry: Perimeter, Area, and Volume3.1 Lines and AnglesGeometry: Introduction to Euclidean GeometryGeometry: Angles and intersecting lines3.2 PolygonsGeometry: Perimeter, area, and volumeGeometry: Angles and intersecting lines3.3 TrianglesGeometry: CongruenceGeometry: SimilarityGeometry: Right triangles and trigonometryGeometry: Perimeter, area, and volume3.4 QuadrilateralsGeometry: QuadrilateralsGeometry: Perimeter, area, and volume3.5 CirclesGeometry: CirclesGeometry: Perimeter, area, and volume3.6 Three-Dimensional FiguresGeometry: Perimeter, area, and volumeDATA ANALYSIS4.1 Graphical Methods for Describing DataPre-Algebra: Applying mathematical reasoningSee "Reading and Interpreting Data" subsection.8th Grade (US): Data and modelingSee "Scatter Plots" subsection.4.2 Numerical Methods for Describing DataProbability and Statistics: Descriptive statistics4.3 Counting MethodsProbability and Statistics: Probability and combinatorics4.4 ProbabilityProbability and Statistics: Independent and dependent events4.5 Distributions of Data, Random Variables, and Probability DistributionsProbability and Statistics: Random variables and probability distributionsProbability and Statistics: Inferential statisticsSee "Normal Distribution" subsection.4.6 Data Interpretation ExamplesPre-Algebra: Applying mathematical reasoningSee "Reading and Interpreting Data" subsection.







Here is what I followed for my preparations:GRE:1. Magoosh tutorials and its 90 day plan (you can get many magoosh items for free also)2. Find out how strong your vocabulary is and learn new words at Vocabulary.com. and its GRE word lists. Install the app in your mobile and learn on the go! 3. Barron's 500 or so word lists (I don't exactly remember which one. I read 2/3 lists and prepared with those) and Kaplan too4. Comprehensive reading  from Kaplan. I also found a random set of 180 comprehensive reading questions on the internet, I found the questions good so studied those.5. ETS practice tests and questions. These are a must.6. Couple of mock tests from online institutes. Many institutes give 1 or 2 free and rest you have to purchase: I completed the free ones from 3/4 sites so had enough of mock tests.7. Novels and online papers (The economist, NY Times), occasionally8. Writing practice from among the sample questions included in ETS site itself. The list is exhaustive and has many questions so you don't look to look elsewhere for writing. Just have some people who can review your writing and grade them.TOEFL:I believe if you have decent english, you don't need to prepare much. Just see the question/task structure from sample tests and practice. For some structural practice, Noteful in Youtube (Page on youtube.com ) is a great resource.







First of all, I’m guessing by a high score you mean 330 - 340. Do not at all get afraid by all the propaganda that it is something extremely tough to achieve. It is not.I am not someone extraordinary. I failed countless, meaningless exams in my life. I have never been a topper or even close to that. So trust me, when I say, it is an extremely achievable target.Like any successful recipe, this also begins with some ingredients:Magoosh GRE Material (Verbal and Quants)Manhattan 5 lb. bookManhattan Mock Test Series (A set of 6 mock tests)Magoosh Flashcards (Available for free)Official ETS MaterialConfidence that you can do itGive yourself 2 - 3 months for preparation. Prepare a timeline.First things first, complete the Magoosh GRE Material videos. Both Verbal and Quants. They will take you quite some time. But they will be more than helpful in jogging old memories and clearing out the rust on those 10th standard mathematics that are already there but have been dormant being unused.Understand more importantly the process they are following to solve. Mathematics will follow straightforward logic, whereas Verbal might seem a little illogical at first, but really it is not. For Verbal it is VERY important to know the EXACT meaning of the words (Where constant practice from Magoosh Flashcards will help you) and also the structure and overall meaning of the sentence provided. Once you start getting the hang of it, you will start to understand the meaning and tone of the sentence, both in Reading Comprehension passages and Text Completions.Next, you MUST complete the ETS Official Guides, all 3 of them. There will be 2 mock tests provided in the book. Make sure you complete them and try to bring a score of +/- 2 from your target score. For example, for me the target score was 330, so I targeted for 328 - 332 in the ETS mocks.Next, the Manhattan 5 lb. book will be immensely helpful. Practice as much as you can each day. Doing BOTH Quants and Verbal. Complete the book by doing each and every problem and going through the answers that you did wrong or had confusion in. Also, make timelines (I did every alternate day) and give the 6 mocks one by one from Manhattan during this period. These mocks are a lot harder than actual GRE, so if you are scoring 318 - 322, expect a high score in GRE.Last but not the least, read, understand and memorize the words from Magoosh Flashcards. They will come extremely handy when you’re doing RC or TC.In the end, believe in yourself. Practice a lot and be confident of your ability. Most importantly, drink a lot of fluids! (Not just before the exam though - your washroom time is counted as the exam time except for breaks)Have a blast with the exam! All the best!







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is used by schools in most English speaking countries for admission into the Graduate program. It assesses the verbal, quantitative and writing skills of the student.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution. So here are some tips to help you.1. Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most. Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2. Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser. Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3. Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous. When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4. Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay.5. Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.A relevant option would be to take the best online coaching class which provides a complete package right from basics to admissions in B-schools wherein you can avoid hassle of travelling as well.Start by taking a Free GRE online courseSource: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE







Grishma Jena's answer to What is the easiest way to score 310 marks on the GRE within the duration of just 20/25 days and with minimal efforts?







GRE is a very important exam to continue your master’s education, thus each one needs to dedicate ample of time, minimum of 3 months, to start preparing for the exam. Preparation is a key ingredient in order to fulfill your dream of being admitted in USA Colleges/universities.Here is a schedule guide in Mastering Words for you:If I may suggest, identifying the SMART objective of your GRE preparation would be pretty useful. (You can actually create your own timeline for this)S - Specific: Your end-goal should be stated, for example: Be confident when taking the GRE exam because I have prepared very well, studied every topic and even had practice tests to enhance more my skills. It should include the “W” questions: Who? What? Where? When? Which? and Why?M - Measurable: A proper schedule should be created and maintained. Establish a concrete number - how many number of words would you like to master? How many weeks would you like to spend for each GRE section? How will I determine if I have accomplished it?A - Achievable: A schedule with defined time and activity is something needed for preparation. Make sure that the words you wanted to master and the time you want to prepare would be achievable. Also, practice as many mock test as possible to avoid cram during exam.R - Realistic: Provide each list of words a realistic time to finish. Let’s say a list of 10 words can be mastered in 3 days or maybe a week. That includes reviewing it through games/the help of vocab app. I suggest you use Preped Vocab - for free. (But that depends on you)T - Time-based: Schedule, schedule, schedule. :)For more help, we have asked a couple of GRE tutors and authors with the following questions. You may click on the following to see the video interview and hear them out.What Is The Best Approach In Preparing For The GRE?How To Avoid Cram While Preparing For GRE ExamHow To Get Used To Stress and Time Pressure? (Quantitative Section)Helpful Tips For Anyone Interested In Taking The GREAre Practice Tests Harder Than The Actual Test For GMAT or GRE?Bonus: The Best Strategies for Recall (Vocabulary Section)







Start early.You'll do yourself a world of favour. First of all, start with giving a mock test. CATKing Free Mock is the best one to start off with.It boosts up your confidence as a beginner and it's just the ideal GRE syllabus.Identify your weaknesses and strengths. GRE has two parts - Verbal and Quantitative. Most people find DI - part of quant- to be a little tough. It requires a lot of practice to get used to. For the Verbal part, a lot depends on how habituated you are to reading. If you've been reading newspaper articles and books since you were young, a little more effort would see you through. For others, instead of trying to memorise words, try to understand the word root method.That's why I emphasize a lot on Norman Lewis - Word Power Made Easy because it helps you build this skill.rahul catking norman lewisWhen trying to understand the meaning of a new word, follow up with its synonyms as well. This helps you grow your vocabulary really fast. Synonyms and antonyms are quite useful in the actual exam. The quant asked in the exam has really basic concepts. You should learn to read between the lines and try to grasp the generic form of it. Go back to your 10th grade books. They contain quite a lot of useful information. Keep giving mocks on a regular basis to acclimatise yourself to the exam giving environment. 4-5 days before the final exam, give PowerPrep I. This would be quite close to the real GRE. Devise a strategy for the final exam. You should decide when to take a break if need be. On exam day, be prepared with all your documents needed for the exam. Make sure you double check before you leave. Be happy and in a positive frame of mind. It really helps.Here are a few of my Verbal Ability Lectures for GRE prep which would help you boost your scores.CAT Verbal ability lectures (GRE /GMAT/ BankPO ) - YouTubeAll the best!







This is going to sound silly, but the best way to get a good score is to believe in yourself. Once you truly believe in yourself, you’ll be excited for the test because you know that you’ll be able to do well. Once you’re excited for the test, you’ll be studying on New Year’s Eve like I did (wish I was joking, but read on to see that I’m not…).I have a long sordid history with standardized tests. When I was in elementary school, I was never selected for the Gifted & Talented Program because my scores on the standardized test were too low. I tried 3–4 times and never got in.Then I took the SAT in 8th grade to check one more time if I was gifted. Alas, I was still not. I didn’t do terribly, but it was dangerously close to that, especially given what others expected me to get.I then took the SAT for the first time in 11th grade. I thought I was studying hard, but I just wasn’t into it. I wanted to prove I was smart by just going in there and blowing the test away. I did not blow the test away. Again, I did fine, but my confidence in myself definitely wavered.I proceeded to take the SAT three more times my junior year. I would do marginally better each time, and when combining my sub-scores from different test administrations I did decently in the end, but it was nothing to write home about. (Also, please do not take the SAT as many times as I did. It’s not helpful to your overall application and colleges aren’t impressed if you spend all of the Saturdays of your junior year sitting in a stuffy classroom taking tests.)Fast forward 4 years to my junior year of college, when I started to prepare for the GMAT. At this point, my level of belief in myself had totally transformed. I had set a goal of getting a 4.0 GPA three years prior, and I was still on track to do so. I now actually believed in myself. This made the studying fun. I knew for every hour I put in, and every mistake I made, I was actually getting better. I studied for a solid amount of time over about 2 months. I came back with a score that, at the time, I was quite excited about (I may have called my mom crying right when the test was finished and I got my score…): a 740, which was 97th percentile at the time.Fast forward 3 more years, and now with difficult grad school and some jobs under my belt, I truly believed in myself. Better yet, the new GRE had just come out and I was sooo excited about it because I immediately sensed that it was a “beatable” test.I set out to studying like an Olympic athlete. I was studying for hours a day because, at this point, I felt that a perfect score was possible. I studied on Christmas Day. I studied a few hours before I went out on New Year’s Eve. While I was out on New Year’s Eve, I was just a little excited to get back home and put in another hour. Again, it was the belief in myself that translated into the excitement and hard work. Each time I sat down to study, I had the feeling in my stomach that you have when you’re riding a roller coaster - pure excitement because I was so excited by the possibility of getting a perfect score.As you’ll see in my profile, while I did not quite get a perfect score, I did get a perfect score on two of three sections (writing and verbal). This time I didn’t call my mom crying, though, because I believed in myself the entire time and knew it was possible with enough dedicated effort.I can’t reiterate enough that this belief in yourself is critical. It’s not about being a genius or even about being very smart. It’s about putting in more study time than the next person. Some people are gifted with the ability to walk in to a test and answer everything with ease. I am not one of those people. You may not be one of those people either, but I can assure you that if you are excited enough about the test, you will get a higher score than you could ever imagine.







I will share my preparation journey.I started with a mock test, provided for free by ETS, in mid July for assessing my as is status. I got 315 (163 Q + 152 V). I then scheduled my GRE in mid September i.e. exactly two months later. This decision was based on the number of discussions I have had with my seniors who had already aced GRE.Since my vocabulary was limited, I started by religiously following Word Power Made Easy by Norman Lewis (Buy Word Power Made Easy Book Online at Low Prices in India). It took me a month for mastering all the words mentioned in the book. In the next month I started with the word list provided for free by Magoosh App (GRE Flashcards - Android Apps on Google Play). I aimed at completing a set of 50 words daily. I used to write them down on a notebook and revise them every three days. I would mark the words which I forgot often and then in subsequent revisions, I would only focus on the marked ones.In addition to building my vocabulary, I also perused through the verbal material provided by ETS and Manhattan Prep (Manhattan Prep GRE). I found the Manhattan material to be quite useful when it came to tackling verbal section questions, especially the reading comprehension ones. I also tried Kaplan and Barron’s materials but found Manhattan one to be superior. Moreover, buying Manhattan books gave me access to their GRE Test Series, which included 6 tests. I used it for giving a mock test every weekend (total 6 weekends) for assessing my progress. The tests are good replica of the actual GRE, however they don’t grade your AWA section. Nonetheless, they helped in identifying my weak spots and take corrective measures.I never separately focused on the quant section and had only practiced it during the mock tests.Time spent:Vocabulary- 3.5 hrs per day for 6 days a week for 8 weeks i.e. ~170 hrsReading material- 10 hrs in totalMock test- 4.5 hrs per week for 7 weeks i.e. ~32 hrsTotal time spent ~ 212 hrs i.e. 26.5 hrs per week.Important learnings from the experience:Vocabulary is really important for cracking the GRE Verbal Section, however just cramming the words is not going help. One needs to learn the applications of these words, which comes from practicing in form of mock tests and practice exercisesPatience is quite important. Learning 50–60 words daily can be tiresome and irritating especially when you’re from engineering background. Moreover, the time and effort put in on daily basis doesn’t immediately reflect on the weekly tests- at least it didn’t happen with me, I scored less than 320 in the first 5 tests. It was only the last two tests when I scored close to 330. Hence, one needs to consistently keep putting efforts.







GRE PREPARATION STRATEGYTry to follow this Chronological GRE Preparation Strategy~First of all take a Diagnostic Test, available at ETS. Analyse your Scores.This Score will give you an idea of your strengths and shortcomings. You should plan and devote time for your GRE preparations accordingly.The GRE Quant tests your basic level of Maths, Specially for Engineering students. You should aim for a full score 170 in Quantitative section. This would help in increasing your overall score.The main area of Concentration is the Vocabulary and RC in the Verbal section.You should Download these two Apps for your iOS/Android device- Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flashcards & Barron's 1100 Words. These are well organised Apps for GRE Vocab Building.An average student needs 300 hours of GRE Preparation to aim for 300+ Scores (I'm not considering the Super Kids who write GRE in 15/20/30 Days & get 320+ Scores). You should calculate you time that can be spared in Weekdays/Weekends for GRE prep. This way you can estimate your tentative date for GRE Exam. Generally 3–4 months time is enough for Preparation.Spare another 20–30 hours for writing Full-length tests, in the last week of Preparations.Some Important points to Consider before GRE PreparationsYou should do initial research for Specific MS programs. Shortlist Universities in Ambitious & Safe categories. Check their required GRE scores & plan your Preparations accordingly.Start your GRE Prep at least 8–9 months before the start of Application window. So even if you don't get your desired score, then also you have enough time to rewrite it.By the time of your GRE exam you should be in a position to shortlist the Four Universities where you are going to send your Official GRE score for Free. Else you will land up shelling extra $ for sending your Official score.Remember you need another Substantial time to complete the other parts of Application like Transcripts, SOP, LOR etc.If you are looking for Financial Aids & Scholarships then you should be able to apply at the earliest (Preferably when the Application Window opens). Earlier applications gives you a lot of Funding opportunities & it's it's for you to take decisions in picking up the best admits (College Reputation & the Financial Aids).I would Not suggest you to have a Counselor before your GRE scores. However you can join a GRE Coaching (Weekend/Online) if needed.“Don't Practice until you get it Right; Practice until you can't get it Wrong !”All the Best. Keep Rocking!~ Dr SSR.







Step 1 - Take one/two/three diagnostic tests. Look for pattern to assess your strengths and weaknessesStep 2 - Make a comprehensive preparation strategy. On areas you are weak ( 0 to 35 % proficiency ) focus the maximum. On the areas you are strong but not yet thorough ( 36 to 67 % proficiency ) focus on reducing your pitfalls. On the areas you are quite thorough ( 68 % to 99 % proficiency ) focus on perfecting your skills and accuracy.Step 3 - Take one/two / three assessment tests. look again for patterns to see if there are any changes in your performance.Step 4 - You may repeat Step 2 based on inputs from Step 2Step 5 - Full Length tests mimicking test circumstances I recommend about 5 testsStep 6 - Take the GRE test/ repeat Steps 4 and 5Between Steps 1 and 2 , if you find you are fundamentally weak in any area, you may need to take some foundation training ( either self/ guided )Remember heavens will not fall if you dont score your best in the GRE but should you not have the satisfaction that you did the best you can to score the best you can. I think that sense of ‘ having tried one’s best’ is important.Also remember this is just the beginning of a long list of occasions where you must do the best you can. One thing is certain. You will grow as an individual.All the Best !!







I have mentioned the pattern and some simple strategies that can help you for your preparation;PATTERN (VERBAL, QUANTITATIVE and AWA)VerbalGRE (Reading Comprehension, Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence)Further for GRE, kindly note that for Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence, one needs to have a very good knowledge on the vocabulary and its usage as well. It is not the knowledge of word list alone but its application too is very important.Please Note that the difficulty level for Verbal in GRE is Very Difficult.QuantitativeAlgebraArithmeticGeometryMiscellaneous (Permutation, Combinations, Counting & Probability and Coordinate Geometry)Data Interpretation (Includes Statistics as well)Please Note that GRE Quant is basic 10th standard maths and much much easier. So kindly brush up your basics.Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)In AWA, GRE students are tested on“Analyze an Issue” [30 mins] in which they have to discuss their opinions/give their ideas on the topic“Analyze an Argument” [30 mins] wherein they are expected to identify the Flaws).IMPORTANT INFORMATIONGRE scores are valid for 5 years AND is a Standardized Test. Since GRE test is standardized, the questions are predictable.Simple strategies but could prove to be very effective:Please follow 20 mins strategy. Prepare seriously for 20 mins and then give a small break. Break depends as you can take a 1 min break to an hour. It solely boils down to you. With this strategy, even if you prepare for 10 times a day (10 x 20 mins = 200 mins = 3hrs 20 mins); then you would be able to put in 3hrs and 20 mins of valuable effort. More importantly, you will not have any starting problem as some students struggle to even start.Further, keep yourself fit by doing meditation, yoga and exercises like walking, running etc to keep yourself fit. Staying fit helps you in enhancing the body & mind and in turn helps in increasing the concentration level.Have a clear goal for your preparation. Work everyday with a plan. Systematic and consistent preparation helps you a lot. More importantly, learn it with passion. If you learn with passion, then you can enjoy studying and not creating self inflicted unwanted stress.Clear Plan and GoalI come across students at times who say that they want to do this and that and so on. Have a clear plan, stick onto your goal and learn with passion. You can then achieve what you want.Self Study or Joining Online/Classroom CoachingOne always has an option to go in for self study. But that requires a high level of self motivation, sheer hard work and lots of time to understand the concepts.In turn, if you join coaching institute, it really helps you as you get to learn from the expert faculty in respective areas and it helps you to save a lot of time, as understanding concepts can take time. Further, you tend to learn tips, strategies and short cuts from the faculties.Further for preparation, student can choose online coaching. But then, the rigor of online and classroom coaching definitely differs. Coaching institutes play an important role in imparting strategies and giving a systematic structure to the student.Other than this, student should be sincere to classes and must put the best effort as their is no substitute for hard work.Factors to be Considered for Classroom CoachingIf someone has to choose coaching institute, then the factors to be considered are1) Faculty profiles (that also include qualifications) [In my opinion, that's one of the most important factor],2) Small class size i.e Faculty : Student Ratio (Even this is a very important factor)3) Materials,4) Online Test SeriesOnline test series, personal guidance from expert faculty etc will be missing if you were to prepare on your own.Take Mock TestsFurther, take lots of Mock Tests (after your preparation) and do a lot of self analysis after each and every test. Through this, you would be able to analyze your strengths and weakness. More importantly, you will not repeat the same mistakes again.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.VijayAlumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT







Gre is based on two important factorsverbalQuantsIn verbal it is diificult to crack reading comprehension.For that u can refer to this site RC GRE: RC Step MethodIt helped me a lot for my RC prepartionsFor text completion and SE one should have a good grip on words .One can use Magoosh free app and also their preminum account Magoosh Online GRE Prep.It has the perfect plan for gre and also creates a step by step study plan to crack gre ! Magoosh GRE - Study PlansIf Magoosh GRE doesn't improve your total score by 5 points on the revised GRE scale, they will give you a full refund!QUANTSone of the easiest parts of gre but one should avoid silly mistakes to get a perfect score on quants !6 DI questions on GRE has to be solved carefully they are one of the easiest but also tricky :PA time mgmt has to followed in GRE QUANTSQC part of GRE is both tricky and easy ,but it has to be managed carefully !One can refer The official guide to gre Buy The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition Book Online at Low Prices in IndiaSolve powerprep 1 and 2,It is close to actual gre and no other mocks is anywhere near to power prep .Dont waste time on unecessary mocks !







There are a lot of ways to prepare for GRE, however I am using the SMART Objective way in helping me prepare for any exam.Identifying the SMART Objective of your GRE Preparation would somehow look like this:S - Specific: Your end-goal should be stated, for example: Be confident when taking the GRE exam because I have prepared very well, studied every topic and even had practice tests to enhance more my skills. It should include the “W” questions: Who? What? Where? When? Which? and Why?M - Measurable: A proper schedule should be created and maintained. Establish a concrete number - how many number of words would you like to master? How many weeks would you like to spend for each GRE section? How will I determine if I have accomplished it?A - Achievable: A schedule with defined time and activity is something needed for preparation. Make sure that the words you wanted to master and the time you want to prepare would be achievable. Also, practice as many mock test as possible to avoid cram during exam.R - Realistic: Provide each list of words a realistic time to finish. Let’s say a list of 10 words can be mastered in 3 days or maybe a week. That includes reviewing it through games/the help of vocab app. I suggest you use Preped Vocab - for free. (But that depends on you)T - Time-based: Schedule, schedule, schedule. :)For more help, we have asked a couple of GRE tutors and authors with the following questions. You may click on the following to see the video interview and hear them out.What Is The Best Approach In Preparing For The GRE?How To Avoid Cram While Preparing For GRE ExamHow To Get Used To Stress and Time Pressure? (Quantitative Section)Helpful Tips For Anyone Interested In Taking The GREAre Practice Tests Harder Than The Actual Test For GMAT or GRE?Bonus: The Best Strategies for Recall (Vocabulary Section)







GRE Preparation Books and GRE Study Materials:Educational Testing Service (ETS): The conducting authority of GRE, ETS produces some of the best GRE preparation books. In fact, ETS’s official GRE study materials are must buys for every GRE aspirant. The advantage of preparing from ETS guides is that the sample papers and practice sets are in sync with the actual GRE test. The best in the series is of course the ETS super power pack which includes a bundle of verbal and quantitative GRE preparation books, test preparation materials, expert tips among others. Besides, ETS offers a comprehensive guide which aims at clearing conceptual doubts of the sections.List of ETS GRE study materials:Official super power packThe Official Guide to the GREThe Official Guide to the quantitative reasoningThe Official Guide to verbal reasoningManhattan prep: Manhattan prep’s books are some of the most popular GRE study materials for GRE aspirants.Of course, like in ETS you can go for the whole set or individual GRE preparation books. The Manhattan Prep GRE set includes 8 guides ontopics likeWord problems, decimals, Number properties, algebra among others.A word of caution here-Don’t use the Manhattan prep GRE set as a last minute study tool. This comprehensive set should be a part of your elaborate preparation strategy while you are attempting the topics.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Manhattan Prep:5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems500 Essential Words: GRE Vocabulary Flash CardsManhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesKaplan: Study abroad exams and Kaplan go hand in hand.The education provider has not only been guiding students in their preparation but also offers a wide range of GRE study materials for students preparing for the test. Kaplan’s most popular package is an annual GRE Premier and GRE Complete. Kaplan’s GRE premier has an incredible 2200 practice questions and 6 full length practice tests. Further, it also includes an online QuizBank which has 500 questions for the aspirants to solve.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Kaplan:GRE Premier 2016 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Premier 2017 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Vocabulary FlashcardsGRE Math WorkbookGRE 2017 Strategies, Practice & Review with 4 Practice TestsBarron’s: Known as a master test prep provider, Barron’slist of GRE preparation books offer a comprehensive set of tips and practice tests for GRE aspirants. Barron’s GRE is of course the most popular of the lot. Currently, in its 21st edition, the GRE study materials contains strategies for all the sections- verbal, analytical, and quantitative along with model tests and answer keys. What more. Barron’s GRE study material also gives the buyer free access to its GRE online courses including practice questions and video tutorials.Virant: Vibrant brings out one of the few good GRE preparation books which cater to the analytical writing section of GRE. The most popular of the lot is the latest edition of Vibrant’s GRE Analytical Writing, which offers very simple and clear strategies to ace this section.Best part about these GRE preparation books is that they offer sample essays on topics similar to that which come in GRE tests.Here are some GRE sample papers- GRE Sample Paper







If u prefer self study and looking for good study materials for your prepartion that can fetch u a good score in GRE then have a look on the below mentioned materials.I assure the quality of the materials is top notch.Pdfs include:-1 - The Princeton Review - Cracking the GRE premium 2018 edition2 - Manhattan latest - 4th edition (8 books)3 - Barrons new GRE 19th edition4 - Kaplan GRE preparation 2019 - latest edition.5 - Grubers Complete GRE Guide - 4th edition.6 - ETS official Guide to GRE7 - ETS Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning practice questions8 - ETS official GRE verbal practice questions9 - ETS GRE BIG Book which include 27 test with answers10 - Manhattan preparation GRE Flash cards (1003 pages)11 - 501 series which include:-501 Critical reasoning questions501 Reading comphrension questions501 Grammar and Writing questions501 Sentence completion questions501 Synonyms and Antonyms Questions12 - GRE verbal made easy by barron13 - Word lists by majortest. com (15 pdfs)14 - Common error in english usage15 - Manhattan prepartion 5lb book of GRE practice problems.16 - The Ultimate Guide to GRE Alzebra which include 700 real GRE questions with lucid analysis.Arithmetic which include 1250 real GRE questions with detailed explanation.17 - Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flash Cards.18 - Master the GRE CAT by Acro Petersons.19 - Wren and Martin20 - RS Agarawal Quantitative aptitude21 - ETS paper based revised GRE practice Book.22 - Mcgraw's Hills GRE premium total test preparation program 6 practice tests.23 - Novas GRE maths Bible24 - Word Power made easy25 - SP Bakshi objective General English26 - Kaplan GRE writing wokbook- 3rd edition ( 844 pages)27 - 15000 useful phrases.28 - Magoosh Complete Quant covering 900+ questions with detailed answers.29 - 501 Word analogy and Writing Prompts.30 - Wiley English31 - 3 model question papers of GRE by Ramki's Ultimate Guide.32 - Magoosh 580+ Quant Questions with answers33 - Barrons GRE high frequency 333 words Vocublary list.34 - 100+ Novels35 - English Grammar secrets by Caroline Brown and Pearson Brown36 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Advanced words Flash cards.37 - Kaplan GRE verbal book38 - The Princeton Review word smart for the GRE.39 - Memory techniques by Krupa40 - Magoosh basic videos of Verbal,Quant,Awa etc41 - The Ultimate Guide to Analytical Writing which include:-* Essays on Issues - Lesson and Model essays on 50 Topics* Essays on Arguments - Lesson and model essays on 10 topics.42 - Sample SOP and LOR43 - list of Universities which accept GRE.44 - Barrons Audio Vocabulary ( 14 audio clips)45 - Kaplan writing topics46 - ETS mathematical conventions for the Quantitative Reasoning Book47 - The GRE uncovered - Introduction to GRE by Manhattan48 - Flash cards of Barron 320049 - Magoosh 1000 pdf of common high Frequency words.50 - 501 Quantitative Reasoning questions with answers51 - 1000 Reading comphrension1000 Sentence correction52 - RC 99 by Aristotle53 - Ace the GRE writing Assessment by Acro Petersons54 - VISA Preparation55 - Vocabulary with Pictures56 - KAPLAN Quantitative Reasoning57 - Cliffs Test preparation GRE CBT ( 6th edition)58 - Guide to Geometry which include 8 identified categories with 1240 authentic examples.59 - Barrons GRE common prefix with meaning and illustrations.60 - Ample amount of practice materials for AWA and verbal.61 - Aristotle GRE verbal GRAIL.62 - Nova's GRE prepartion course63 - Princeton new GRE verbal workout64 - Ramki's The Ultimate Guide to Verbal reasoning which include:-Reading comphrension - 380 real GRE questions with answersText completion - 435 real GRE questions with answersSentence Equivalence -120 real GRE questions with answers65 - Magoosh Complete guide to Vocabulary66 - Barrons 6 GRE practice tests.67 - Kaplan GRE Premier with 6 practice tests.68 - ETS GRE general Test Practice book69 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Maths flash Cards (998 pages)70 - GRE full tests for Practice ( 36 Tests with answers)71 - 1014 Practice questions for the new GRE by Princeton Review72 - Manhattan New text completion supplement73 - A student's introduction to English Grammar by Rodney Huddleston and Geoffre K Pullum.I am selling the above mentioned materials at a very nominal amount of Rs 200.U can pay through any of these mobile wallet:- Paytm,Bhim, Phonepe,Tez etc.So interested one (only Indians) can ping me on Whatsapp 7737428150.







Want to prepare for GRE? Here is a 4 step-easy process-Step 1: Get Started with Understanding the GRESo, as the first step, take the time to understand what the GRE will test.GRE Syllabus-1) A section called “Analytical Writing Ability” or AWA, which is basically just essay writingThis section contains two essays:a) “Analysis of an issue” in which you will be asked to write either for, or against a given topic.b) “Analysis of an argument” in which you will be given a situation that you need to argue against.2) Two sections of 35 minutes each for Quantitative Reasoning (fancy-speak for Maths)The four areas in which you will be tested are:a) Arithmeticb) Geometryc) Algebrad) Data Analysis3) Two sections of 30 minutes each for Verbal Reasoning (nothing but plain old English)a) Text Completion in which you will be given a sentence (or two) with one, two, or three blanks. From among the options, you need to pick the word(s) that correctly convey the intended meaning.b) Sentence Equivalence in which you will be given a sentence with one blank and you need to pick two (yes two!) options from among the six given. As you can imagine, the two words you pick should be synonymous, and fit in the blank.c) Reading Comprehension, in which you will be given a passage followed by a set of questions that you need to answer. The answer could either be explicitly stated in the passage (easy!) or implied through context (tough!).4) One section of either Maths or English that is not scoredGRE also gives you one extra section of either Maths or English. Thus, in total, you will have five sectioms.Step 2: Get the right GRE Study MaterialFollowing are the GRE study materials available to you:a) GRE Preparation on the internetWith the advent of online content and fast internet speeds, why would you want to stick to the “traditional” methods of pen and paper? Online GRE preparation gives you the flexibility to study on the go. Test preparation companies such as CrackVerbal offer you great options to study from the convenience of your home. See GRE Online course.b) GRE preparation booksIf you think the internet is a distraction and want to stick to a book, there are several options to choose from. You could either choose resources from a test preparation company like CrackVerbal, or stick to the official books published by ETS, as already discussed. CrackVerbal resources are:The CrackVerbal GRE Verbal GuideThe CrackVerbal GRE Quant Guidec) Free downloadable GRE preparation materialDo you know that Khan Academy has explanatory videos for many topics in the GRE Quantitative Reasoning section? (Trivia: Khan Academy was founded by Salman Khan, who has degrees from MIT and Harvard). You can find the videos here.You can also have a look at learning words through Learning Words the Fun Way – Flashcards. If you find them interesting, you can head over to Amazon to buy the entire set of 500 flashcards with quirky cartoons to help you quickly remember words and their meaning: CrackVerbal’s GRE Flashcards – pack of 500Step 3: Prepare for the GREYou just need a clear GRE study plan that is customized to meet your needs.  For many GRE aspirants, the study plan needs to be designed based on urgency to appear for the exam. For example, if you are planning to apply in August-September (fall intake) and it is already May, you would need an intensive three-month plan to be able to apply with a score.Step 4: Take the GREGRE practice testsBefore you go into the battlefield, you need to ensure that you have enough “match practice”.There is good news and bad news.The good news is that the GRE practice tests offered by ETS. are a fairly accurate indicator of where you will stand on the real test.The bad news is that you have only two full-length practice tests. Hence, after you take the tests, there is really no way to know if you are improving.You can always drop into your nearest CrackVerbal center if you want to take a free test, and have it evaluated by inhouse GRE experts.







Most answers to this question will cover the more popular books on the market. It makes little sense then to discuss books, instead let’s talk about the other resources available to you.GRE Diagnostic Tests: If you’re just starting your preparation, a good (free!) resource you should be taking advantage of is a diagnostic test. This will tell you where you stand currently and which areas require more focus. This is important because it’ll help you streamline your preparation and ensure you spend time only where time is needed.GRE apps: Another great resource I think should be mentioned are GRE apps. Considering how much time we’re likely to spend on our phones on a regular basis, this seems like a terrific option. Accessible anytime, anywhere. You could start with the GRE Test Prep app by Galvanize. It comes with hundreds of GRE questions, excellent explanations to answers as well as a system to track your readiness/progress. And it’s completely free. If you’re looking to hone your verbal skills in particular, there are apps for that as well. Ultimate Vocabulary Prep and GRE Flashcards are some of the more popular apps for the same.GRE forums: For invaluable information from your peers and experts all over the globe, a forum is an absolute no-brainer. You can post questions on anything GRE-related and hope to receive answers. These forums are curated to cater specifically to a GRE-curious crowd so you can be sure to find something of value whenever you need it. Some of the more popular forums include GRE Prepclub, thegradcafe, urch etc.GRE Videos: Make the most of all of the free videos available on YouTube that offer explanations and tips for topics ranging from Permutations & Combinationsto Analytical Writing Analysis. Looking for ‘hacks’ on acing the GRE? There are videos for those as well.As you can see, aside from books, there are plenty of other resources you can and should rely on to give yourself the best possible chance at a high score.Some people have also mentioned GRE prep courses. I’d like to add one as well- Galvanize Test Prep. Galvanize offers comprehensive GRE courses designed by graduates of Stanford, Harvard, IIT & IIM.They’ve even created highly rated the GRE prep and GRE-Vocab building apps I’ve linked above.You should check out their apps or their website and see if it would be a good fit for you!I hope this was helpful to you!Good luck!







Khan Academy edX







For more such articles and awesome techniques to improve vocabulary and test it, head straight to Wordly- Learn Words, Improve Vocabulary - Android Apps on Google Play.The Official Guide to the GRE General Test, 3rd Edition- Educational Testing Services (ETS), the maker of the GRE, offers the only official guide to the test, and we consider it to be the best source for GRE prep. If you must choose only one series, this is the book we suggest you buy. Consider it the Holy Grail. The content in this book is the same a test-taker would find on the actual GRE. Bundled with 4 complete tests, numerous verbal and quant problems and actual graded essays, it is definitely worth the money.PS: You must also buy Official ETS Quant Reasoning and Official ETS Verbal Reasoningbooks separately for the same reasons as previously stated.Manhattan Prep- Manhattan Prep, a leader in test-taking readiness, offers a wide extent of products to help you prepare for the exam. A test taker has two options broadly based on the time until the test:- The first is that Manhattan Prep offers eight test-taking strategy guides, focusing on each of the tests content areas including Algebra; Fractions, Decimals, &amp; Percents; Geometry; Number Properties; Word Problems; Quantitative comparisons and Data Interpretation; Reading Comprehensions and Essays; and Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence. This is great for those who have sufficient time to solve them and are continuously motivated. One thing is for sure, if one does this, the vastness of questions will make sure that one’s GRE is nothing more than a piece of cake. The second option is for those who are seeking good quality problems and Manhattan Prep provides its all-in-one book titled 5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems. This book caters to all of a test takers problems and is a must buy for those who have their exams around the corner. PS: Also available from Manhattan Prep are "GRE Reading Comprehension & Essays", "500 Essential Words: GRE Vocabulary Flash Cards", and more.Barron's GRE, 21st Edition- Barron’s claims itself to be the leaders in the test prep, and their GRE preparation book definitely bolsters their claims. This 624-page book comes with one diagnostic and two full-length tests. They also have two types of wordlists-complete and high frequency-that help you in preparing well for the actual test. Additionally, not only are all answers provided for the sample tests, but Barron provides explanations for the answers as well to help you fully prepare for what you will come across on the GRE. With the purchase of this book, you can access Barron's online GRE Course and iPad app for essay preparation.Princeton Review’s, Cracking the GRE Premium Edition 2018- Cracking the GRE Premium Edition, 2018, provides students with an exhaustive review of all GRE topics; practice questions with detailed answer explanations; key strategies for solving Text Completions, Sentence Equivalents, Numeric Entry and Quantitative Comparisons. Buying the Premium Edition also includes access to additional practice tests and extra test strategies, review and practice through our Premium Portal online. Additionally, this book offers 6 practice tests unlike any of the aforementioned sources. PS: They also offer 1,007 GRE Practice Questions which is quite nifty.Kaplan's, GRE Prep Plus 2018- GRE Prep Plus 2018 is arguably the largest in terms of its question bank. This book boasts of 2200+ questions and 500 more in online Quiz Bank. The USP of this book is probably that it not only prepares you for GRE(through both offline and online app) but also guides you on how to manage stress and how to go about the graduate school application process. Furthermore, you can get academic support from Kaplan faculty by connecting with them on their Facebook page. With full-length tests and numerous test-taking strategies, this book is worth the money. PS: Also available from Kaplan GRE are "GRE Vocabulary Flashcards" and "GRE Math Workbook".







I would not recommend joining a coaching center for GRE preparation. Prepare on your own. All they do is teach you some strategies which can be learnt by going through any one of the quality books available in the market.Concepts:I would personally recommend Manhattan series(8 books) to cover all the concepts, strategies and the different types of questions for both quants and verbal.Practice:Quants:Manhattan 5lbOfficial GuideOnce you finish 5lb and OG, you can try Nova. If you finish Nova and have plenty of time with you, then you can solve pretty much any book that you can get your hands on.Note: GRE quant is easy but very tricky after a certain point, that is, if you perform well in the first section. If a question is taking you a lot of time then, probably, it means that you are doing it the wrong way. It is very important to approach a question correctly so that it can be solved in the least amount of time possible. The only way this can be developed is via practice. You can also refer to GMAT books(GMAT Official Guide, Manhattan GMAT guide etc) to help you with this as GMAT quants are generally trickier compared to GRE. Also, keep a tab on your mistakes and avoid making the same mistake again.Verbal:Manhattan 5lb, GMAT OG, GRE OGWords: Use Magoosh appDo not concentrate on mugging up words. Instead, read articles from quality sources such as The Economist, NYT, etc. It will help you develop your vocabulary as well as stamina to grasp long and dense passages. Coming to sentence completion, it is vital that you carefully choose the options that make the most amount of sense and fit the context. If you just blindly mug up words, it will NOT help you in this section. You have to read the sentence first and choose words that fit the context. You will develop this only with practice and reading articles from aforementioned sources.Long story short, the more you read and practice from quality sources the better you will be in this sectionFull length Tests:Lastly, I would advice you to give at least 10+ full length tests. Believe me, this is one of the most critical aspect of preparation for the GRE.P.S: If you really want to join a coaching center, I would recommend you Magoosh. Not only do they provide you with quality strategies and tutorials but also tons of questions along with video explanation for each of them.Moreover, they cover all the topics unlike many of the books available in the market. It's really worth it.BEST OF LUCK!!







Hello there, As suggested by the other posters, there are multiple options for test prep in Bangalore. At the end of the day, how effective a program is boils down to a few key things.Teaching philosophy of the institute (do they only cater to high scorers, or do they only focus on strategy etc.)Expertise of the trainers (have they been taught to merely deliver a templated course or are they people who have taken the tests themselves and have mastery over the subjects)Quality of the courseware and the computer based tests you receive.When you’re picking a coaching program, figure out the following things:1. Sit through a session of the teacher you are likely to study under (as a demo).2. Ensure that the Study materials are industry standard; you don’t want to be practicing / learning from a spiralled copy of the CAT / GATE tests - you won’t see good results through that.3. Seek word of mouth4. Check out their policy on post-class support. Will teachers provide support up to the day of the test, or will they abandon you as soon as their classes are done?5. Make sure that the practice resources and full length tests emulate the actual GRE. Again research online to find this out.If you find that a training program checks off all these items, then go ahead and enroll. You’ll definitely see improvements in scores. At the end of the day go with what your ‘gut’ tells you after evaluating all those aspects discussed!That said, I am cofounder of PlusPrep, a test prep company. These values form our core principles and we strive to provide the best in world preparation experience and mentorship to each of our students at affordable prices. Do get in touch with us if you want to have some of the best teachers in India work with you on your GRE preparation!Godspeed!







In my opinion Byjus is the best for Gre preparation.The best of byjus is the teachers who teach you the course. They are themselves the toppers in Gre exams. Verbal part is taken by P.N.SANTOSH who has got 338 out of 340 in Gre Exam and He is having a mathematical approach to solve the Reading comprehension section. He know how to take you from the basic to the very high level. Byjus classes is using the technology well, if technology is available why you want to waste it. You will not get this kind of teachers anywhere in other coaching institutes. If you are a person who is self motivated then you join byjus as you will not be having anyone to monitor your performance . If you want someone to push you always join other institutes.Join byjus if you want to learn lots of shortcut techniques and bell the Gre Exam.







I would suggest Magoosh - Online GRE Prep and Practice Questions with Video TutorialsThey are way better than what any coaching institute can ever be for GRE. If there is technology available - why don't you use it. They are dirt cheap and have awesome features like filtering of questions based on topics and also on difficulty level. All questions / lessons are available on video which helps you understand things better. With their adaptive learning and other tech features you will be able to find your weak areas easily and then improve on them. Look beyond Bangalore, look at what the world has to offer.







If u prefer self study and looking for good study materials for your prepartion that can fetch u a good score in GRE then have a look on the below mentioned materials.I assure the quality of the materials is top notch.Pdfs include:-1 - The Princeton Review - Cracking the GRE premium 2018 edition2 - Manhattan latest - 4th edition (8 books)3 - Barrons new GRE 19th edition4 - Kaplan GRE preparation 2019 - latest edition.5 - Grubers Complete GRE Guide - 4th edition.6 - ETS official Guide to GRE7 - ETS Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning practice questions8 - ETS official GRE verbal practice questions9 - ETS GRE BIG Book which include 27 test with answers.10 - Manhattan preparation GRE Flash cards (1003 pages)11 - 501 series which include:-501 Critical reasoning questions501 Reading comphrension questions501 Grammar and Writing questions501 Sentence completion questions501 Synonyms and Antonyms Questions12 - GRE verbal made easy by barron13 - Word lists by majortest. com (15 pdfs)14 - Common error in english usage15 - Manhattan prepartion 5lb book of GRE practice problems.16 - The Ultimate Guide to GRE Alzebra which include 700 real GRE questions with lucid analysis.Arithmetic which include 1250 real GRE questions with detailed explanation.17 - Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flash Cards.18 - Master the GRE CAT by Acro Petersons.19 - Wren and Martin20 - RS Agarawal Quantitative aptitude21 - ETS paper based revised GRE practice Book.22 - Mcgraw's Hills GRE premium total test preparation program 6 practice tests.23 - Novas GRE maths Bible24 - Word Power made easy25 - SP Bakshi objective General English26 - Kaplan GRE writing wokbook- 3rd edition ( 844 pages)27 - 15000 useful phrases.28 - Magoosh Complete Quant covering 900+ questions with detailed answers.29 - 501 Word analogy and Writing Prompts.30 - GRE flash cards31 - 3 model question papers of GRE by Ramki's Ultimate Guide.32 - Magoosh 580+ Quant Questions with answers33 - Barrons GRE high frequency 333 words Vocublary list.34 - 100+ Novels35 - English Grammar secrets by Caroline Brown and Pearson Brown36 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Advanced words Flash cards.37 - Kaplan GRE verbal book38 - The Princeton Review word smart for the GRE.39 - Memory techniques by Krupa40 - Magoosh basic Quant,verbal,Awa etc videos.41 - The Ultimate Guide to Analytical Writing which include:-* Essays on Issues - Lesson and Model essays on 50 Topics* Essays on Arguments - Lesson and model essays on 10 topics.42 - Sample SOP and LOR43 - list of Universities which accept GRE.44 - Barrons Audio Vocabulary ( 14 audio clips)45 - Kaplan writing topics46 - ETS mathematical conventions for the Quantitative Reasoning Book47 - The GRE uncovered - Introduction to GRE by Manhattan48 - Flash cards of Barron 320049 - Magoosh 1000 pdf of common high Frequency words.50 - 501 Quantitative Reasoning questions with answers51 - 1000 Reading comphrension1000 Sentence correction52 - RC 99 by Aristotle53 - Ace the GRE writing Assessment by Acro Petersons54 - VISA Preparation55 - Vocabulary with Pictures56 - KAPLAN Quantitative Reasoning57 - Cliffs Test preparation GRE CBT ( 6th edition)58 - Guide to Geometry which include 8 identified categories with 1240 authentic examples.59 - Barrons GRE common prefix with meaning and illustrations.60 - Ample amount of practice materials for AWA and verbal.61 - Aristotle GRE verbal GRAIL.62 - Nova's GRE prepartion course63 - Princeton new GRE verbal workout64 - Ramki's The Ultimate Guide to Verbal reasoning which include:-Reading comphrension - 380 real GRE questions with answersText completion - 435 real GRE questions with answersSentence Equivalence -120 real GRE questions with answers65 - Magoosh Complete guide to Vocabulary66 - Barrons 6 GRE practice tests.67 - Kaplan GRE Premier with 6 practice tests.68 - ETS GRE general Test Practice book69 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Maths flash Cards (998 pages)70 - GRE full tests for Practice ( 36 Tests with answers)71 - 1014 Practice questions for the new GRE by Princeton Review72 - Manhattan New text completion supplement73 - A student's introduction to English Grammar by Rodney Huddleston and Geoffre K Pullum.I am selling the above mentioned materials at a very nominal amount of Rs 200.U can pay through any of these mobile wallet:- Paytm,Bhim, Phonepe,Tez etc.So interested one (only Indians) can ping me on Whatsapp 7737428150.







I suggest you to first check out Magoosh GRE, before looking for coaching centers. Continue reading and you’ll know why I’m suggesting you Magoosh as best GRE prep.From the above screenshot you can see that you get Realistic Score Predictor (my friend had scored exactly as predicted by Magoosh) along with timing. They have more than 200 lessons and 1000+ questions with video explanations for each, which you can watch as many times as you want. All the lesson videos range from basic concepts till advanced level required for the test. The number of questions appearing from each topic will be clearly mentioned so that you can practice that specific topic more and score high.As you can see in the above image, you can even customize your Unlimited Practice Sessions/Tests.For practice sessions, you canChoose section ( Verbal/ AWA / Maths)Select subjects/topics as per your wishYou can even select difficulty level as Adaptive — just like in real GRE. It even has easy/medium/hard difficulty levels.You can select from different question pool like Unanswered, Answered, Incorrect or Flagged.You can flag questions/lessons while practicing.Select Number of questions for a practice session.Practice with/without time limitation.Select Quiz Mode/Practice Mode.From the above features you can focus in which ever topic you want, whenever you want. You can’t get all these advantages if you go for coaching centers.For every question, you get all the options that you can see in the above screenshot. You can compare your pacing with others’ pacing. It even has an on screen calculator/ timer — just like in real GRE. Each and every video lesson and question explanation video has option to take notes which will be helpful during revision. They even clarify doubts through emails if you have any doubts regarding any question. If you are willing to pay some money, they even have one-on-one session to train you.They have amazing flashcards which have lots of words arranged according to difficulty/frequency level. The flashcards feature is completely free and you can even use in from computer/mobile. They even have android and IOS apps using which you can practice even during commute/whenever you want.To help memorize all those words, I use Mnemonic Dictionary.You can try all the Magoosh features completely free for 7 days and then decide if online course / offline coaching institutes suits you. To get it completely free for 7 days, click on the above link and click signup/try it now. Then, click on “free trial” that is just below premium plans.I hope my answer helped you.







TL;DR - Go for GREedge.Now the long story.Before getting into the debate of which coaching institute is best for GRE, let us look at the ingredients of a good GRE score.Start with a diagnostic test.Just like a medical test, a diagnostic will help you identify your weaker areas in GRE. It will tell you where do you stand in your preparation. The score you get in a diagnostic test is what your current GRE score would be. Don't worry if your diagnostic store is low. This is just the start point of your preparation. You got work to do from here.Make a proper study plan.GRE isn't as gracious as your semester exams when it comes to scoring good marks. Only proper practice and preparation will take you there in the GRE. Hence an organized study plan. Keep your diagnostic test score and target score in mind and prepare a proper study plan. Make sure you make a plan that doesn't disturb your daily routine (college or work)Review your progress frequently.Divide your preparation in sessions of an hour or two. Have targets of finishing a certain portion every session. Once you finish the session, review your performance thoroughly. Identify the mistakes and rectify them (very important). Find out the solutions to the questions you were unsure of. Then practice again. Keep a check on how you are progressing.Make your learning fun. Use picture based wordlists.Sooner or later you are going to get bored of your preparation. So it is always recommended that you make your learning fun. Don't go for those long & boring alphabetical wordlists. Picture based wordlists will help. It will make your preparation enjoyable. This way, you'll keep yourself motivated for a better score.Take as many practice tests as possible.GRE is an online adaptive test. The difficulty level changes with your performance. You need to get used to the GRE like interface even before you take the exam. GRE style tests and practice tests a good way experiencing the GRE before the actual GRE. It will give you a hands-on experience of the exam, which is very important especially in GRE.Get guidance from an expert.For things like AWA, you'll be needing the help of an expert. Because let's face it, one cannot evaluate his own essays. An expert has to look at it and give you suggestions and tips on how to improve your essays. You'll hardly find AWA tips in any books and most coaching classes ignore the AWA section. A good score in AWA is of high significance during admissions. Spend some extra time and effort on it.These are the basic requirements of a good GRE score. If you follow these steps properly, reaching your target score will be a walk in the park.Btw, one such institute I can think of, which provides all the above, is GREedge. Good thing is that they are online and you can study any time you want, anywhere you want. Moreover, they provide personal trainers, who will monitor your progress continuously.It saves travelling time and doesn't interfere with your work or college.Your Step by Step guide to GRE SuccessThanks for the A2A Divya Nadhella :)







Jamboree, Princeton Review - The horrific truth behind the how the “leaders” of the industry run their business.Hi,I’m writing this anonymously because the test preparation industry is very small and I can’t afford to be honest without being anonymous.I have been a teacher in the test preparation industry for over 6 years now and have worked in both Jamboree and Princeton review as a teacher. Though things seemed great when I started my career, I realised soon that things were terribly wrong in how the “training” was imported to the students and how the business itself was being run.I’m a firm believer that education must be student centric and must be modified to fit individual student needs. Education shouldn’t be run like a fast food restaurant where a bunch of lay people are trained how to “put together” a meal - these people aren’t cooks but just “assemblers”.Unfortunately, Princeton Review and Jamboree do just this! Their biggest problem is the lack of customer focus in the truest sense. They don’t care that the number of students in a batch is too much or a teacher is not qualified to teach a particular subject! They do whatever they should to reach their monthly targets. In fact, there have been many times that I’ve observed the sales “counsellors” forcing students to purchase expensive training programs or services that those students really don’t need. They also make it a policy for teachers to push such products to students even if the teacher feels the student doesn’t need them.Let’s look at the first problem: Inexperienced teachers and zero focus on faculty development.This is quite appalling, since you are likely to get an unexpended teachers who knows very little in-depth knowledge about the subjects he teaches! These teachers, I can confidently vouch, may be even incapable of scoring in the 60th percentile for most of the exams they teach for! The “training” they go through is a one time - one week long event where they are taught the script that has to be followed in class. Yes! The “master trainer” will reinforce the fact that “you are giving a performance” and “just follow the script!”. What we end up having therefore are “teachers” who stick to specific script, blindly follow the explanations to questions that their master trainer taught them and will have zero understanding of the actual tests! How are you supposed to get a good learning experience if you teacher knows nothing about classroom management, has no subject knowledge expertise or no understanding of what problems students actually face?Second. Even if there are some great teachers - they are NOT allowed to modify the “presentation”!In other words, even if the content he needs to teach is not good (which it is - example GMAT and GRE student books!), he has no power to change anything about the already - rigidly set structure and script!Very little individual attention and very abysmal proportion of high scorersThe problem with most students is that they go with what their friends tell them. if you want to have a good time with your friends in class, then by all means join either of these institutions. But if you really want to improve your scores, avoid these at all costs. This is mostly because, quality of teacher involvement reduces with more students in the classroom. GRE and GMAT are reasoning tests, so teaching it like a theory test WILL NOT make sense! Plus, if you really compare ALL the test score data of ALL the students who joined here - you’ll realise that the high scorers (80 percentile and above) is close to about 10 percentage of all the students who join! Think about it! Only 10 percentage of students who join end up getting a top 20% score! That’s pathetic!You know what the worst part about all this is? They charge you exorbitant prices for these programs but give you NO value add for it! It’s just “Brand” that keeps them so popular. And the fact that most Indians go behind brand name and not the true value they are likely to get!IMPORTANTWhen you’re picking a training institute, please check forThe level of personal attention you will getThe profiles of the teachers (Talk to them personally before you decide to enrol)How much support they will give? (Ideally you need to be provided support till the day of the test!)Quality of their materialsPlease don’t waste your time and money chasing big brand names! Please do proper research before you join an education company! If you stop supporting such unethical practices, they will have no option but to change the way they operate and become more ethical! That’s just how simple it is!







Here’s how I scored 330+ with a 3 week preparation plan!It is important to understand that the GRE is very different as compared to the other exams we are used to giving, talking from an Indian’s perspective. Blind hard work will not serve any purpose and sometimes will be counterproductive.ETS (the company that conducts the GRE) wants to convince you that your score is a measure of how good you are at ‘critical thinking’, but in reality it is only a measure of how good you are at giving the GRE. So, fortunately for us, the more you practise in the correct way, the better you become at giving the GRE.The Correct Way (in my experience) :Quality > Quantity. Always. Please do not spend 10+ hours a day mechanically solving problems and forgetting about them as you move forward. This will cause you to plateau at a certain skill level. The key is small incremental improvements.For me, the ideal way was a simple 3 step process :1.	Solve problems in small sets, around 20(+5 || -5) questions per set.2.	Check your answers. See the solutions, understand them thoroughly.3.	After checking all, recap the questions you got wrong, why, and what you learnt from them. This is extremely important.Let’s jump into the schedule now, shall we?Pre-prep phase (1 week) :Okay, I lied, it’s not really 3 weeks, but this pre-prep phase won’t take more than two hours of your time per day, and what’s more, you can easily do this while you eat or just before sleeping.What is to be done? Words, Words and more Words.Spend this week learning the words from the following apps :1.	Barron’s 11002.	Magoosh Flash Cards (around 1000 words)3.	Manhattan Essential Words (around 500 words)Vocabulary is essential to understanding the Reading Comprehensions as well as the sentence completions, so please complete this before moving ahead!Week 1 :Congratulations! The boring part is done. This week, let’s do :1.	4 Practice Tests2.	Practise each type of question in isolation. For example, do 20 Text Completions in one set. This will help you to identify weaknesses to work on.3.	Brush up all the shortcuts and maths formulae that you encounter.(Online Magoosh article exists)Week 2 :This week, let’s move forward with :1.	6 Practice Tests.2.	Do mixed practice sets now (All types of problems together), to simulate the actual GRE scenario.3.	Strictly time your tests and practice sets. Keep 5 minutes per section as a buffer. Identify which type of questions you are slow at. Work on them.Week 3 :Buckle up, this is your final lap :1.	8 practice tests.2.	Start reading AWA essays online, as well as general structuring tips. A lot of video material is available online. Practise a few essays if necessary.3.	Revise the Vocabulary words and mathematical formulae.At the end of this schedule, you should be ready to face the GRE. So be confident, sleep well before the paper and ohh, don’t forget to carry a jacket. It’s freezing in there.Thanks for reading! Please do upvote if this helped you.







Disclaimer!: This is not my account. My username is Abhijit K. I won't be replying to any comments on this answer. For any specific queries just leave a message @Abhijit KHi! I'm Abhijit K. I prepared for about a month ( in which I prepared for 2 weeks full/75% steampower). I got a score of 334(verbal 164/ quant 170). 4.5 in the essay writing. If you have any specific questions please feel free to contact me through quora @Abhijit K .I basically took a GRE coaching course to help me speed up my preparation.The first step ,as far as I'm concerned, is familiarisation. You need to get comfy with the test and it's various aspects, be it GRE, JEE or any other competitive test. By attempting questions or sections ( preferably with time limits). If it is a written test go for a written mock test and if it's computer delivered then go for an on computer test. Please do not take the hardest test available, you have to maintain your morale throughout. Don't look to score much. In this phase you just look to improve your perception and gain confidence. Start the actual training only after this. Take a couple of days. Write some tests/sections. Identify your strengths and weaknesses. Build your basic understanding. Why is this step important? It basically helps you build confidence and fight inertia. A familiar difficult opponent is far more easy to tackle than an unknown opponent. Please do spend a couple of days for this, no more, no less.The other thing you have to do is improve your vocabulary. Do this from day -infinity, period. Whenever you read on quora or anywhere else for that matter pick up the difficult words you see and try to learn them. I would also recommend the maggoosh apps.How you learn the words is very important. Phase 1: learning the word/meaning of the word. Try learning in a smart way rather than the hard way. Try learning by association, learn a word using images, phrases, associating it with something,etc. And do keep track of these words in an order fashion, maintain a note book for it and revise the words at least once a week.Phase 2: (you should be able to do these different phases in parallel to others, do not plan only a single activity each day) learn how to use these words. Learn how to spell and pronounce them. This helps you retain the word strongly in your memory.Phase 3: Learn synonyms, antonyms, similar words, related words and the etymology. This is key to a good sentence & text completion score.Phase 4: Try using the words to form sentences.I believe that you can spend at least 1 hour+ each day and learn at least 30 new words( if your vocab is limited then try for 40–50). By the end of the month you will have learned 900+ words ideally. The GRE vocab will be more focused on the uncommon words so pay special attention.The verbal section can be broadly divided into 3 parts: Sentence equivalence, text completion & reading comprehension.For the reading comprehension part:On an average spend about an hour each day, preferably in 2 or 3 installments. Try practice sessions of 2 to 3 RCs with 5 to 8 questions total. Try to identify the different types of questions and identify strengths and weaknesses.Each day practice at least 10–15 text completions and similar number of sentence equivalence each day. As you get more comfortable with it try increasing the number of questions in each section but please don't exceed 30–40. Your objective is not getting tunnel vision but to form your own strategy for solving the different types of questions.After each bout rest. Replenish your energy to continue on. Relax as you please but don't overdwell. Please don't forget that you have a daily quota to complete. Get used to this pattern.As for quant spend at least an hour daily. Try to maintain pace while solving a 20 Q set. Skip the difficult questions at first, do them after you solve the easy ones.Try forming solving strategy for the individual questions and the set. Maintaining your pace/tempo is the most important thing when it comes to solving a section, be it quant, verbal or essays.If you want any strategy help do not simply use someone else's strategy, impovise and make your own strategy based on it.I won't be replying to any comments. If you have any specific querries please leave a message @Abhijit K.







A2AA score of 320+ is certainly achievable in 1 month. In fact, you can achieve that score in less than a month of careful preparation. My suggestion would be this:For Quant: Solve Manhattan 5LB (5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems: Manhattan Prep: 9781937707293: Amazon.com: Books). As someone pointed out, for getting a perfect score you need to be really very accurate. This book has a range of problems and is really one of the best books for preparation for Quant. You can certainly aim for 170 during the actual GRE since you got 167 in the practice test. But keep in mind, for scaling a perfect score, you need a lot of practice.  For Verbal:You need to find out where you can improve from your practice test. If you scored well in RCs, then you might want to concentrate on Sentence Equivalence (SE) and Text Completion (TC). If you scored well in SE/TCs, then you might want to practice RCs.  Again, the key here is to identify mistakes, and the best way to do this is to spend some time analyzing the mistakes in the practice test. Once you know which areas you need to work on, pick up the Manhattan Verbal book and start solving. Last 10 days:Give one practice test a day. This is extremely important. Once the test is complete, carefully analyze your mistakes and spend the rest of the day in solving problems in the areas in which you made mistakes. Good luck!







Grishma Jena's answer to What is the easiest way to score 310 marks on the GRE within the duration of just 20/25 days and with minimal efforts?







My sincere suggestion is to have at least 2 months of time for preparation to score 320+ marks. I discussed some key points along with the strategies below that might help you for your preparation;PATTERN (VERBAL, QUANTITATIVE and AWA)VerbalGRE (Reading Comprehension, Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence)Further for GRE, kindly note that for Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence, one needs to have a very good knowledge on the vocabulary and its usage as well. It is not the knowledge of word list alone but its application too is very important.Please Note that the difficulty level for Verbal in GRE is Very Difficult.QuantitativeAlgebraArithmeticGeometryMiscellaneous (Permutation, Combinations, Counting & Probability and Coordinate Geometry)Data Interpretation (Includes Statistics as well)Please Note that GRE Quant is basic 10th standard maths and much much easier. So kindly brush up your basics.Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)In AWA, GRE students are tested on“Analyze an Issue” [30 mins] in which they have to discuss their opinions/give their ideas on the topic“Analyze an Argument” [30 mins] wherein they are expected to identify the Flaws).IMPORTANT INFORMATIONGRE scores are valid for 5 years AND is a Standardized Test. Since GRE test is standardized, the questions are predictable.Simple strategies but could prove to be very effective:Please follow 20 mins strategy. Prepare seriously for 20 mins and then give a small break. Break depends as you can take a 1 min break to an hour. It solely boils down to you. With this strategy, even if you prepare for 10 times a day (10 x 20 mins = 200 mins = 3hrs 20 mins); then you would be able to put in 3hrs and 20 mins of valuable effort. More importantly, you will not have any starting problem as some students struggle to even start.Further, keep yourself fit by doing meditation, yoga and exercises like walking, running etc to keep yourself fit. Staying fit helps you in enhancing the body & mind and in turn helps in increasing the concentration level.Have a clear goal for your preparation. Work everyday with a plan. Systematic and consistent preparation helps you a lot. More importantly, learn it with passion. If you learn with passion, then you can enjoy studying and not creating self inflicted unwanted stress.Clear Plan and GoalI come across students at times who say that they want to do this and that and so on. Have a clear plan, stick onto your goal and learn with passion. You can then achieve what you want.Self Study or Joining Online/Classroom CoachingOne always has an option to go in for self study. But that requires a high level of self motivation, sheer hard work and lots of time to understand the concepts.In turn, if you join coaching institute, it really helps you as you get to learn from the expert faculty in respective areas and it helps you to save a lot of time, as understanding concepts can take time. Further, you tend to learn tips, strategies and short cuts from the faculties.Further for preparation, student can choose online coaching. But then, the rigor of online and classroom coaching definitely differs. Coaching institutes play an important role in imparting strategies and giving a systematic structure to the student.Other than this, student should be sincere to classes and must put the best effort as their is no substitute for hard work.Factors to be Considered for Classroom CoachingIf someone has to choose coaching institute, then the factors to be considered are1) Faculty profiles (that also include qualifications) [In my opinion, that's one of the most important factor],2) Small class size i.e Faculty : Student Ratio (Even this is a very important factor)3) Materials,4) Online Test SeriesOnline test series, personal guidance from expert faculty etc will be missing if you were to prepare on your own.Take Mock TestsFurther, take lots of Mock Tests (after your preparation) and do a lot of self analysis after each and every test. Through this, you would be able to analyze your strengths and weakness. More importantly, you will not repeat the same mistakes again.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.VijayAlumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT]







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is a test of your overall performance in terms of your quantitative aptitude, English language proficiency and analytical writing skills. The quantitative section deals with your high school math fundamentals. Questions from your basic math are asked in a brain teasing way. Tackling this section with ease requires lots of practice. The most important constraint is the time. You will have to solve the paper within the allotted time. The following information provides you with a detailed insight into the quantitative section along with some useful math tips that will help improve your score. Areas of concern for GRE quant sectionThe GRE Quant Section concentrates primarily on 4 major areas namelyArithmeticAlgebraGeometryData analysisOne should not anticipate direct and easily solvable questions in the Math section of the GRE paper. You will be asked questions from the above mentioned concepts in a twisted fashion. These questions take much of your time if you are not prepared well. The questions might involve a single concept or else might be based on more than one concept. Usually, the questions asked are the ones involving more than one concept. The crux of the given problem involves simple logic and if you are one among those who strike the right chord, you will surely be successful. For such ability, you will require lot of practice and some tips to improve your aptitude and save time. GRE Quantitative tips will help you a lot.ArithmeticUnderstanding the number family such as prime, positive, negative, even and odd numbers is the key to scoring in Arithmetic’s.Familiarity with elementary mathematics such as ratios, decimals, percentage, probability, etc could be established through preparative materials such as Kaplan’s Maths Guide and workbooks.The various rules associated with logical reasoning could be written down and reviewed periodically as logical reasoning always has an upper hand in solving these problems more easily when compared to formulas.AlgebraPractice should be initiated with simple questions followed by challenging problems.Basic algebra concentrates on variable manipulations and simplifying equations.Scratch paper must be used to solve these problems rather than attempting to solve them in your head. This technique avoids confusion and increases speed.Changing signs are the areas of common mistakes to look out for in Algebra. Continuous practice and clear understanding of concepts resolves these problems.GeometryYou could begin by mastering primary planar geometry involving lines, angles and basic shapes. Geometric formulas for basic calculations should be memorized.Diagrams must always be constructed for these types of questions. Illustrations are always a shortcut to solving geometry problems efficiently in lesser time than required.DataAnalysisData Analysis includes questions from statistics involving mean, median, mode, frequency distributions, charts, tables and graphs.Tackling these questions begin with scanning through the presented data to get a fundamental idea and focusing only on the conditions required for answering the questions.It is mandatory to keep an eye open to characteristics such as axes of graphs, units of measurements and orders of magnitude to avoid common conversion errors.More the practice, better are the chances of scoring in these questions.You can also watch my videos https://www.youtube.com/channel/... Or you can visit my website for excellent online course for GRE at www.catking.in







This isn’t directly responsive to your question, but I wonder why you would want to waste precious days and weeks pursuing this goal. OK, if you enjoy mental challenges like this, perhaps it would be fun for you to try to get a 340 — and then you can go take the Mensa test and get another number to brag about.But if you think that getting a 340 on the GRE — instead of, say, a 320 — is going to get you into a good grad school, I think you may be disappointed, even if you do manage to get that 340.I can’t speak for every graduate program, of course, but over the years I have evaluated and rated hundreds of applications for PhD programs in Carnegie Mellon’s School of Computer Science — among the top-rated CS programs in the world by almost any measure.And despite all this experience, I just had to go look up what a 340 score on the GREs means. I always look at the GRE percentile scores and not the arbitrary numerical scores, and so do most of my colleagues. If you’re from a good school that we know about, we look mostly at your grades (and at what courses you did well in), and not at the GREs.Also, we admit a lot of students from China and India who have good quantitative scores, but pretty weak verbal and writing scores. I always figure that, even if the person can communicate pretty well in English, taking the GRE in English is going to be unfairly hard for them, so I look mostly at the TOEFL scores to see if they can function in English.About the only time I pay serious attention to the GRE scores is if I can’t make sense of the undergrad university’s grading system, or if the GRE is so much lower than the applicant’s grades that it makes me suspicious.That’s just one data point, but if you’re tempted to spend time trying to optimize the last few points on your GRE score, I would strongly suggest spending that time on a research project instead, or reading a few more papers in the field you want to go into.







My answer is based on what I've gleaned from own experiences and from conversations with others who have scored 338 or above.Preparing for the examFirst, you should start out as a decent test-taker. Pre-preparation, you'll want to start out scoring at least 325-330 (if not higher) on your first couple of practice exams before deciding to aim for a 340.* Additionally, it helps to have taken and done well on other exams written by ETS, such as the SAT, if only to have familiarized yourself with the general style of ETS's question writing.Second, practice. Once you start consistently scoring at least 165-167 on each section, you have all the fundamentals down. You might want to brush up on a little bit of math or some vocabulary words that you're missing here and there, but otherwise it's practice all the way. Once you get up into the 336+ range, especially, the only thing that separates a 339-340 and a lower score is a couple mistakes. Consistency and practice are the difference-makers here.For this reason, I would strongly recommend doing computerized practice questions only (and there are services that offer more practice questions in the official computerized format than you could possibly need). You want to have the comfort of "home-court advantage" when taking a test—if the home team gets an additional 3-4 points per game per college basketball game, then being intimately familiar with the computerized test format might be the difference maker between a 339 and a 340. By the end, I was really fast at clicking the bubbles, marking questions, and navigating through the test in general. It might seem trivial, but the advantage of "getting in the zone" (not to mention saving a few seconds per section) is priceless.Test-day war planMake multiple full passes through each section. Strategy-wise, I took at least two passes through each quantitative reasoning section, doing the problems from scratch each time. With enough speed gained through practice, I was able to make a comfortable pass through each section in less than half the time allotted. It's definitely probable that most test-takers could get a 170 from doing just one careful pass (and maybe one check pass), but I felt that I maximized my chances (if only by a tiny bit) by doing the problems really quickly more than once.On the first and second passes, I would mark a question (and come back on a second or third pass) if I was slightest bit unconfident about my answer. On the second pass, especially, try your best to ignore what you did on your first pass; furthermore, I would recommend starting from the end of the section (the harder questions) first. This is extremely crucial for catching the small mistakes or consistent mis-readings of questions that often create one or two mistakes on the quantitative reasoning section. I would save a third pass just as a general sanity check or for one or two questions that I marked from the first two passes. If I felt that time was running down, I'd start checking the marked questions halfway through the second pass.Similarly, I would take at least two passes through each verbal reasoning section but wouldn't necessarily re-read the passages. Here, the emphasis was more on a couple of trickier questions (which I would mark during the first pass). It was harder for me to get a 170 on the verbal reasoning section but for a different reason: it was less about random mistakes and more about honing in on a few tricky questions. (A general strategy that applies to any test-taker is to shield out the answer choices when answering the passage-based questions, as the wrong answer choices only serve to distract—provide your own general response first before looking at and choosing among the answer choices.)Take frequent breaks. Even if I felt really good about a section I had just taken, I would always opt to take at least a short breather after that section.Pro tip: There's a long break in the middle of the test, but realistically you probably have enough time to drink water or use the restroom after any individual section. The ETS gives you a lot of time to read the general instructions at the beginning of each section (if I recall correctly, several minutes), and you can even click the button to request extra time to read the instructions, which you can do once per section. Honestly, unless you're fretting to begin the next section, I don't see any disadvantage to taking advantage of that time to "reset" and clear your mind before each section, especially if the previous section was a bit more hectic than you would have liked.Note that while some of the strategies I mention above are applicable to all test-takers, some are good only if you're looking to get a near-perfect scaled score (and otherwise could potentially be rather poor strategies if extreme accuracy is not your limiting factor, as you might be missing questions due to the rapid pace of making multiple passes).*I'm not saying it's not possible to get a 340 starting out with a lower score, depending on exactly how and why you got the lower score, but if you're starting far below a 330, shooting for a 340 starts to become less realistic and a matter of diminishing marginal returns on your time: the GRE is less important to grad admissions than the MCAT and SAT are to medical school and college admissions, respectively. Realistically, anything above a 330 is quite sufficient for admission to most top grad schools in the U.S. if your other credentials are good, especially if you're applying as a domestic student (though do note that many top math/engineering/physics programs desire a near-170 quantitative reasoning score as a sanity check). Even if you're looking to get a score in the 336-340 range, note that the grind to get from, say, a 330 to a 335 is arguably faster and less treacherous than that to get from a 336 to a 340.If you're dead-set on a 340, though, I'd start with the steps highlighted in the many excellent answers to How do I prepare for the GRE to score above 330?There are certainly accounts of people out there who have put hundreds of hours over many months preparing for the GRE, which is certainly warranted in some cases depending on their goals, but putting in the extra month of study to improve just to a couple points is not really worth it. Do more research. Get more job experience. Learn more about the world. Eat some pie.







GRE consists of the following sections:Analytical Writing – 2 sections or tasks“Analyze	an issue”“Analyze	an argument”Verbal Reasoning – 2 sections25 questions/sectionQuantitative Reasoning – 2 sections25 questions/sectionIt is not much difficult to score in quant. Manhattan and Kalpan are the best sourcesYour verbal ability accounts for two thirds of your score; quantitativeability accounts for the rest. To do well in GRE, you must ace thelinguistic side of the test.How do you do that?Cultivatea habit of reading extensively. Any book (my personal recommendation are the classics), magazines – TheEconomist, Reader’s Digest.newspapers – NewYork Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Guardian(the best content lies in the editorials, and definitely not in the Page-3/entertainment section), websites and news sites (BBC has some of the finest content).Moving on to the Verbal Reasoning section. The finest tool you can equipyourself with, to crack this section is a vast vocabulary. Now, some of us are somehow blessed with a vast vocabulary, most of us,unfortunately, aren’t. That makes learning vocabulary our primary challenge in cracking GRE.How do I build my vocabulary?Extensive reading helps; but this is tedious method of getting there. There is extensive literature available on GRE specific vocabulary; various sources are give you this list. Kaplan’s and Barron’s have their long and condensed lists for you.Thebest of them all, however, is VocabSmith. (I must confess here that Irepresent VocabSmith). VocabSmith teaches you the words with meaning,usages and synonyms. VocabSmith uses the state-of-art RST algorithm,which is the most advanced learning methodology for vocabulary.Psychological research suggests that new words are learned best by repeated exposure to them, up to 4-7 times.VocabSmith’s RST algorithm governs your exposure to the words, in a frequency determined to be the most optimized, as suggested by proven psychological research. The algorithm further aligns this revision on the user’s difficulty in learning the words – you find a word difficult, no problem, VocabSmith revises it more for you. This way,VocabSmith ensures that your time spent on the tool maximizes your retention of the words, and associate with word usages.VocabSmith’s content has been prepared by veterans who’ve been in this industry for over 15 years. The list of words in each of its courses have been carefully chosen, so as to optimize your preparation for GRE. You could choose from the following three packages:GRE Complete – For the marathoners. This course contains the complete	GRE word list of 3500+ words.GRE High Frequency – For the medium-distance runners. This course contains a thoroughly-researched list of 1000+ words repeated often	in GREGRE Ultra High Frequency – For the sprinters. This course contains	400+ words that have appeared the most often in GRE.Itis available in both Android and iOS versions. Links are given below:iOS:	https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/...Android:	https://play.google.com/store/ap...







Lawrence Chiou’s answer is excellent, so I won’t repeat what he has said. Read his first, and I’ll add on more.Verbal:You are probably not going to score 340 without a large vocabulary. If you have a long time to prep, start reading lots of non-fiction and intellectual new sources like the Economist. If you have a weak vocabulary and short time to prepare, memorize an available list, but set your sights a bit lower.Process of Elimination is super important. Particularly when you need to pick two words that both fit the sentence *and* match. On the tricky questions, they like to throw in words that fit the sentence but do not have a pair. Eliminate them.Tone is very important. Look for positive and negative words and make sure your answer matches.Quantitative:You should have enough time to go through each question twice. Try to solve the problem in two different ways to make sure your answers are consistent and you didn’t miss a trap.It’s very important to back-solve. Almost all questions you can plug the answer in to solve for the initial conditions. This can be one of your two way.Use shortcuts to narrow down choices. eg. in a triangle the third side will always be less than the sum of the other two. Or the angles will sum to 180. On some questions, only one answer will meet these basic criteria and you won’t need to solve the problem completely.Test Day:Drink plenty of water.In your practice tests, you should be finishing the sections in less than 15 minutes. Use this time to get up, perhaps take a water/bathroom break and then review the questions in a fresh mindset (note: if you have trouble completing the sections in < 20 minutes, a 340 is probably unrealistic).Try and book your exam on a date/time when you will be in a good mental space (eg. not right before a holiday, morning/afternoon, Monday vs. Friday. When are you sharpest?)Dress comfortably but professionally. I found that wearing business casual put me in the right mind set. A psychological hack to put yourself in a focused, business-oriented mindset.Use the ‘mark’ function to mark questions you should triple-check.Don’t bother memorizing school codes. You can look up the school at the end of the test and if you really can’t find it, you can pay to send it afterward.If you are applying to business school, write the GMAT first. I found the Reading Comprehension, Critical Reasoning and Quantitative Problem Solving to be tougher on the GMAT. If you prepared for the GMAT, you will have to do little prep in these areas for the GRE.







Here's a 3 step simple plan outlined by Aditya Hebbar, who scored a perfect 340/340 in the revised test:Reading wordlistsTaking sample tests to realize my weak areasPractice and strategyHere's the detailed blog post wherein he explains each step in depth:3 simple steps I followed to score 340/340 in the revised General GRE testHope this helps. Wish you all the best. :)







Hi, for quantitative part we provide questions with answers. We also provide difficult questions. Please visit our YouTube channel Math







If you are confident that you can do on your own,then go for it-Self study.Otherwise enrolling in class would be better,I feel.This is how you should start withTake a ETS test. You can get a free test from the website ETS Home.Once you take the test you will figure out your level and how much more you need to work on the GRE.Get the right help - If you think you are good at self-study and are self disciplined go ahead and but the ETS book , you might want to check with a few friends and look for online stuff. If you are preparing for GRE then do take up one of the Free GRE Online Courses or look for FREE GRE resourcesIf you are looking at professional help - That is focusing on taking classes, couple of things you should considera) Don't blindly go an enroll - check on their materialsb) facultyc) Take a demo classd) Most important what kind of support they provide after class etc.Take a few mock tests before you book you test date, so that you know the progress. Remember Tests are like Thermometers they just tell you the temperature. Don't think tests will help you score high !Start by taking a FREE GRE Demo ClassIf getting a high score is important to you, you must give yourself a comfortable 2.5-3 months to prepare for the GRE. If not, then don’t harbor any hopes of scoring well and be content with an average score. However, don’t overdo it; 3 months are more than enough. Your mind may splutter if you overwork it.Ok, first of all, if you have the time available, I would suggest a 3-4 months prep time. Why? Well, since many of us come from Engineering or Non-literature backgrounds, we do not get the opportunity to built that large vocabulary set that ETS tests on. I feel 4 months is a sufficient time to make up for that deficiency. If you have a year at hand, that's even better. You really can ace the dreaded verbal section with that much prep. 4 months is enough to do the quantitative practice side by side too.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution. So here are some tips to help you.1. Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most. Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2. Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser. Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3. Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous. When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4. Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay.5. Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.A relevant option would be to take the best online coaching class which provides a complete package right from basics to admissions in schools wherein you can avoid hassle of travelling as well.Free GRE online course







It isn’t mandatory to go for coaching for GRE exam.It all depends on your proficiency in Maths and English. If you have studied maths in high school (11th and 12th standard in India) also, then it won’t be very tough to score 165+ in Quant section. For verbal section, you might need a lot of practice if English is not your native language.Let me share some resources which worked for me - P.S. - I had studied maths in high school.For Quant Section - Books that i practiced from - 1. Official ETS guide for Quantitative Section2. Manhattan 5 lb (2nd edition)3. NOVA’s GRE prep course^ Start practicing questions from these books in this order only. And practice from NOVA only for the topics you are still unsure about. (This much practice was enough for me, but if you want you can surely go ahead with practicing NOVA as well). But do check out the theory and techniques discussed in this book for topic. It was quite helpful.And if you find any topic difficult (for me it was Probability and P&C), see videos on khan academy or probably on youtube. There were some techniques which were not discussed in these books which were EXTREMELY helpful were - Rate Pie and Ratio Box (Do google it and practice it). Also, do note down important formulas, tips, tricks you encounter while practicing questions and revise them before giving any mocks and the real test of course.For Verbal Section - Books that i practiced from - 1. Official ETS Guide2. Manhattan 5lb (2nd edition)3. Read general approaches and techniques from - Manhattan GRE Prep- Guide 7 - Reading comprehension and EssaysBest way to practice any type of question in this section would be -attempt 10–15 at a time ( 2 passages at a time for RC)just check whether the answer you marked is correct or notIf it is correct - great - but still read the explanation of the answerif it is incorrect - re attempt the question. If it is still incorrect - read the explanation carefully and see where you went wrong.And do check and note down the meanings of difficult words you encounter in the questions.Another tip for RC passages would be practicing to read complicated (which are written in complex sentence structures, on topics like art, literature and history) articles. By practicing I mean - Reading such articles with a good pace and understanding them in 2–3 attempts max. You can find such articles on Arts & Letters Daily . Just read one article daily. This would make you very comfortable with reading long passages without fainting.For vocabulary - You won’t be able to simply cram so many words from the available word lists or flashcards. So, I HIGHLY RECOMMEND this website - Comprehensive, Engaging Vocabulary Building - You need to try it to know how awesome it is. (Thank me later)But if you can’t purchase the subscription, my second recommendation would be learning words from - Find out how strong your vocabulary is and learn new words at Vocabulary.com. Pick up any GRE word list and check up the words on this website.Also- note down these words in a notebook with short meanings and any kind of mnemonics (the true saviors) for revisions after every 2–3 days.For Essays- Read as many sample essays as you can. Also practice writing atleast 10 essays of both issue and argument type and then try to match or check your level with the sample responses. Sample responses are available in the books that i mentioned for Verbal section.And yes most importantly - give as many mock tests as possible. It will really prep you for the actual flavor of the test, the time constraints, pressure and exhaustion over nearly 4 hours. The most important ones are by ETS PowerPrep . There are many other free tests available online too - Manhattan, Princeton, CrunchPrep etc.Good Luck!







The decision of attending coaching classes depends solely on your own potential and ability to grasp concepts. One rant about GRE coaching classes I've commonly come across from my friends is that the Math sessions are pretty monotonous and useless if you have a good math background from high school. So that's something that can be ruled out. Now coming to the most dreaded part for everyone- Vocabulary. Except for voracious readers and people with a strong literary background, vocabulary is average/above average for most Indians. So there's no need for you or anyone for that matter to be over worried about the Vocabulary. At the same time I would also like to add that Vocabulary in the GRE is not a cake walk- It does a need a LOT of effort, hard work and practice. To hone your vocabulary skills, there are amazing books, softwares and mobile apps that you can tend to. One app that I personally used and gained is the Magoosh GRE Vocabulary app- it provides a neat and comprehensive strategy for learning words. Daily practice is mandatory to improve vocabulary. And needless to say, there is a whole load of online test portals and websites that you can use for practice. So, if you really feel that you can spend enough time and put in enough effort all by yourself and be motivated to study till the day before your GRE, then the whole concept of coaching classes is a humbug and can be neglected without any question. It saves you a lot of money that can be used for your applications in future. So, take a call depending on whether you can really spend time by yourself and study hard or whether you need an external teacher in coaching class backing you up with periodic assignments and tests. Thanks for the A2A.







Not Really.Peer-to-peer learning and self-learning is the best way to start improving skills and knowledge. you should start practicing at early age. because Coaching is like a drugs once you start taking you need it more. you might loose confidance to learn something by own. may be you might loose creativity. but always try to make small learning groups who want to learn like you. you can use social media to find people. check out following examples:Can you get an MIT education for $2,000?: Scott Young at TEDxEastsidePrep  Sugata Mitra's new experiments in self-teaching Peer 2 Peer University - Learning by everyone, for everyone: Philipp Schmidt at TEDxBeaconStreet  Breakthroughs in collaborative education : Akshay saxena--------------------------------------------------Verbal Reasoning –--------------------------------------------------The GRE Verbal Reasoning section tests your ability to analyze any written material and extract information from it. Almost half of the questions require you to read passages and answer questions related to them, the rest tests your vocabulary usage by reading, completing or relating sentences. The Verbal Reasoning section has the following parts :- 1. Reading Comprehension2. Text Completion3. Sentence EquivalenceThe GRE New Pattern has 2 Verbal reasoning sections – 20 Questions & 30 minutes per section. The scoring is done on a scale of 130 to 170, with 1 point increments. --------------------------------------------------Quantitative Reasoning –--------------------------------------------------The GRE Quantitative section tests a candidate’s ability to understand, analyze and interpret quantitative information. It covers basic mathematical skills you have developed during high school like arithmetic concepts, geometry, algebra, probability and statistics. The GRE New Pattern has 2 Quantitative reasoning sections – 20 Questions & 35 minutes per section. The scoring is done on a scale of 130 to 170, with 1 point increments. --------------------------------------------------Analytical Writing –--------------------------------------------------The GRE Analytical Writing tests your critical thinking and analytical writing skills. It doesn’t check for your subject knowledge but your ability to construct an essay by supporting it with complex ideas and arguments. There are 2 types of Analytical Writing Essays in GRE New Pattern:- 1. Issue-Task essay2. Argument-Task essays Both essays are to be completed in a period of 30 minutes are each and total evaluation is done on a scale of 0-6 with half point increment in the GRE New PatternKhan Academy® Instructional Videos: Free Preparation for the GRE® Quantitative Reasoning MeasureKhan Academy Free Test Preparation--------------------------------------------------GRE Vocab Wednesdays27,076 subscribers • 5,765,262 views 838 videosGRE Vocab WednesdaysWant more help with the GRE? Click the link below to try us out for free!Detailed video explanations for EVERY question, built-in timers, customizable practice exams, full-length mock tests, and accessibility make Magoosh both easy to use and easy on the wallet while you study for the GRE.--------------------------------------------------easyvocab5,816 subscribers • 456,681 views 110 videoseasyvocabLearn and master words the FUN way! Improve your vocabulary using interactive videos!--------------------------------------------------GRE Vocabulary video Tutorials--------------------------------------------------Top 52 Words - Vocabulary - (GRE/SAT/CAT)GRE vocabulary over 3000 wordsGRE vocabulary over 3000 words--------------------------------------------------GRE AWA Video Tutorials--------------------------------------------------GRE - Analytical Writing AssessmentLayout of an Essay (AWA - Issue Essay)--------------------------------------------------GRE Verbal Videos Tutorials--------------------------------------------------Magoosh GREMagooshGRE--------------------------------------------------GRE Quantitative Video Tutorials--------------------------------------------------Revised GRE Official Guide Math Problems - Online Prep Tutor - GRE, GMAT, TEAS, HESI, SAT, ACT, TOEFL, and IELTS keshwaniprep.com 1-800-808-PREPRevised GRE Official Guide Math Problems - Online Prep Tutor - GRE, GMAT, TEAS, HESI, SAT, ACT, TOEFL, and IELTS KeshwaniPrep.com 1-800-808-PREPThe Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test (With CD) (English) 2nd EditionThe Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test (With CD) (English) 2nd  Edition - Buy The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test (With CD) (English) 2nd  Edition Online at Best Prices in India - Flipkart.com--------------------------------------------------5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems (English)5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems (English) - Buy 5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems (English) by Manhattan Prep Online at Best Prices in India - Flipkart.com--------------------------------------------------GRE Test Prep VideosGRE Test Prep Videos--------------------------------------------------MSinUS-E-Book.pdfGRE Practice Tests | GRE Words | GRE UniversitiesGRE eBook: A Complete Guide to the Revised GRE







Thanks for A2A,My opinion would be : if you are intelligent enough to analyze yourself, and to find out your own strengths and weaknesses, you do not need coaching. (As coaching classes do just that. They will point out your weaknesses and will tell you to focus more on that and will give you specific problem sets regarding your weak points etc. If you can do that yourself, you don't need coaching classes.)It depends on factors like whether you are a student currently or an employee and whether or not you can attend your GRE classes regularly due to burden of your studies/job.But, people clear GRE without any coaching. You can study yourself. Get the books and get started (ETS, Barron's, Manhattan, Magoosh etc ), if required you may refer to online video resources. Once you get your basics sorted, which you can do in a few days of self study, all you need is practice. And, also regular mock tests. You do not need coaching for that. Even if you decided to attend coaching classes, they can just guide/advise you on a regular basis, but the 'study' part, you have to do it yourself. My advise: be your own guide/adviser/coach!! So, decide wisely if you need coaching or not. You may try classes for a short time, and drop out if you don't like it.All the best :)







Dont prefer coaching classes, they are very expensive.The first thing you have to do is give the POWERPREP practice test first, then you will come to know your weak and positive areas. If your quant is good focus on verbal more, if your verbal is good focus on quant.If you want the better GRE score :1. I will strongly recommend perfectscores.com, In this site you will get exclusive guidance for GRE. 190/- bucks per month.2. After listening all the videos you just practice the 5lb Practice Problems from Manhattan Prep and Princeton 1000 practice questions for the GRE (if you google it, you can find free PDFs)3. For vocabulary purpose do the Vocabulary.com's 1000 word list.4. For reading comprehension purpose follow this linkgre.wordpandit.com - Reading5. Finally do as many as practice tests, for this case try to buy the 6 computer based adaptive tests from the Manhattan prep, if you buy any book from the Manhattan GRE prep, you will get the access for all the six practice tests for free.







No, a GRE score is not mandatory for admissions in MS courses in Canada. However, it completely depends and varies with the course of study and university that you are applying to.In addition, if you wish to have an edge over the other applicants in terms of the impression your student profile makes, then a good GRE score will be useful for you.In fact, most of the top universities recommend you to have a GRE score for admission into their MS courses.Hope it helps!







I will respectfully disagree with those who state that the GRE is not necessary.The answer I would give is “it depends”The specific program will define if the GRE is required, or not.For example, ECE at UBC “"strongly recommends” it for foreign students. Minimum Requirementsif I were applying to that program, I would certainly take it and submit it.CS at UBC does not even recommend it.SFU clearly states that it is required by some programs (Simon Fraser University)Thus, you should check the requirements of the specific program. Do not assume that anyone on the internet can give you a definitive answer to such a program specific question.







Well it depends on University you are applying to. Some universities clearly mention that it is mandatory to get admission where as some universities states that they encourage applicants from outside Canada to submit GRE score in order to enhance their profile. Overall, if you are having low GPA then good GRE score can somewhat help you to improve your profile and chances to get admission.







Yes,for those who are seeking admissions in top 5 universities of Canada..otherwise it's not compulsory..you can get admission by giving IELTS only..so work on your academics and your speaking,listening,reading and writing skills and try to get around 7 or more in IELTS then you will have a great chance of securing admissions.All the best..!!!







GRE is not at all mandatory for Canada. Most of the Canadian universities ask for IELTS/TOEFL. However there are some universities which might ask for GRE score. Almost all U.S. universities require to have GRE score.For further assistance you can visit our website: www.westernacademy.co.in







It depends on the school you're going to apply. As per my knowledge GRE is not mandatory for colleges. However, some universities will ask for GRE score and also it'll give you plus point to your resume. As I got admission from University of Ottawa, GRE is not mandatory but if you wrote, they'll consider the score and kept in your file and evaluate that scores also.







Anybody can score 330+ in GRE. I followed a 3 week preparation plan.It is important to understand that the GRE is very different as compared to the other exams we are used to giving, talking from an Indian’s perspective. Blind hard work will not serve any purpose and sometimes will be counterproductive.ETS (the company that conducts the GRE) wants to convince you that your score is a measure of how good you are at ‘critical thinking’, but in reality it is only a measure of how good you are at giving the GRE. So, fortunately for us, the more you practise in the correct way, the better you become at giving the GRE.The Correct Way (in my experience) :Quality > Quantity. Always. Please do not spend 10+ hours a day mechanically solving problems and forgetting about them as you move forward. This will cause you to plateau at a certain skill level. The key is small incremental improvements.For me, the ideal way was a simple 3 step process :1.	Solve problems in small sets, around 20(+5 || -5) questions per set.2.	Check your answers. See the solutions, understand them thoroughly.3.	After checking all, recap the questions you got wrong, why, and what you learnt from them. This is extremely important.Let’s jump into the schedule now, shall we?Pre-prep phase (1 week) :Okay, I lied, it’s not really 3 weeks, but this pre-prep phase won’t take more than two hours of your time per day, and what’s more, you can easily do this while you eat or just before sleeping.What is to be done? Words, Words and more Words.Spend this week learning the words from the following apps :1.	Barron’s 11002.	Magoosh Flash Cards (around 1000 words)3.	Manhattan Essential Words (around 500 words)Vocabulary is essential to understanding the Reading Comprehensions as well as the sentence completions, so please complete this before moving ahead!Week 1 :Congratulations! The boring part is done. This week, let’s do :1.	4 Practice Tests2.	Practise each type of question in isolation. For example, do 20 Text Completions in one set. This will help you to identify weaknesses to work on.3.	Brush up all the shortcuts and maths formulae that you encounter.(Online Magoosh article exists)Week 2 :This week, let’s move forward with :1.	6 Practice Tests.2.	Do mixed practice sets now (All types of problems together), to simulate the actual GRE scenario.3.	Strictly time your tests and practice sets. Keep 5 minutes per section as a buffer. Identify which type of questions you are slow at. Work on them.Week 3 :Buckle up, this is your final lap :1.	8 practice tests.2.	Start reading AWA essays online, as well as general structuring tips. A lot of video material is available online. Practise a few essays if necessary.3.	Revise the Vocabulary words and mathematical formulae.At the end of this schedule, you should be ready to face the GRE. So be confident, sleep well before the paper and ohh, don’t forget to carry a jacket. It’s freezing in there.Thanks for reading! Please do upvote if this helped you.







Hey,I have recently taken GRE for the first time on 25th August . I scored 319 with Verbal: 151 & Quant: 168. Though it is not pretty good score but I made it without any tuition classes ,just by self-preparation. So if you are taking any tuition classes then it may not be the best answer that you are looking for.I am one Electrical Engineering student so writing GRE is a whole different experience for me than a student of Arts or Economics.If you do belong to Engineering or Science background then it may not be a hurdle for you to get 165+ in Quant section.For Quant section I only followed ETS Official Guide . It has lots of good examples which literally can help you gain clear idea about GRE maths. So first start with this book , study and solve all the problems in Maths Review Section. GRE maths are basic maths from class 9 or 10. So you will find no uncommon topic but only one. That’s a chapter containing concepts of SD , ND ,Percentile .For that Magoosh will provide a great support. GRE Math: Percentiles and Quartiles - Magoosh GRE Blog .Now for Verbal section you have to plan a schedule. For general students of Science background have problems in Verbal section. For that generally people start to remember as many words possible. But here I will suggest not to go for Barron’s 3500 or Nova’s 4000. As these all were quite helpful for OLD GRE. Revised GRE does not test your stock of words rather it tests your ability to use and understand the context of quite normal words. Here for that a list of 1000 words will play a great role. Generally Magoosh’s 1000 is recommended but you don’t even have to complete 1000 words just do Common and Basic words and ignore Advance Words.If you are having more than 2 months then start to remember the words as soon as possible because you have to revise them everyday . Start to remember 20–30 words a day. Then try to use all these words in daily conversation or text writing . Your friends may end up calling you a scumbag think that you are showing you vocab stock but believe me it literally gonna help you a lot. If you do minimum 25 words a day you will complete all Common and Basic Words (650) in 25 days.If you have a strong vocab you can easily score good in SE & TC section. Now you have to go for RC & CR practice. For this you can always go with Manhattan 5lb. book but make sure you are not taking this book as a level of GRE just because some of the questions in RC section are way too easy where some can be real pain . Questions are not distributed properly.But still it has lots of good passages which gonna help you a lot to build you reading habit if you already are not a avid reader like me :) Manhattan book’s SE and TC section is way too vague as it collects all the rough and obsolete words from dictionary and put them in a question. So you may not find any confidence solving this.So summing up the whole point start preparing for GRE with remembering words from Magoosh List or Magoosh flashcard app. Then go for RC and CR.Last thing is writing Mock Tests. There are lots of test available most of them are free. But make sure you are not writing any irrelevant test as it either gonna hinder your confidence or gonna over estimate your scores. Start with ETS power prep 1 followed by some 5–6 other test and end this rally of exams with ETS power prep 2 .For AWA section write few Arguments and Issues from ETS pool . And to create your strategy read as many as AWA possible from GRE SAT LSAT GED TOEFL MCAT ACT IELTS GMAT Test PrepGRE is not at all a tough exam I cracked it with 20 days attentive preparation.I was blessed that I never needed to solve maths .But the main thing is practice. I regret not practicing much verbal questions from books . You please don’t run the same mistake.Hope this helps :)







Firstly, there is nothing as “clearing GRE” …. There is no pass or fail. What you have to make sure is you get good enough score that can get you admitted in your favourite university. Generally, a score above 320/340 is qualified as a good score, and 330+ will make sure you get into the best colleges (provided the other parts of your application are similarly strong).Now coming to the question of “how”. Make sure you have enough time on your hand for preparation (6-8 months: for a steady preparation).Quantitative section, take a look at ETS Math review, it will help you recap all the concepts you need to make clear to get a good enough score. Scoring 166+ in quants is not a tough task, provided you are good at maths and you have had enough timed practice. For practice, you can try the Manhattan 5lb book, it has innumerable sums.Cracking the verbal section is a tough task, but you can really make it up if you devote enough time. Read story books, of old authors (not the new ones!), it will help you a lot in your vocabulary and usage. Read newspapers, editorial columns, it will definitely help you in understanding RC's (reading comprehension). A knowledge of etymology never hurts, so you may as well complete “Word power made easy” by Norman Lewis (trust me! It helps). Magoosh flashcards are equally important, you need not mug up all the 1100+ words, but having a fair idea of the words helps. Use kaplan gre general test workbook, it will give you all kinds of tips and tricks, as well as some very helpful vocabulary insight (in the appendix section). And finally, practice and practice. Same as quants, Manhattan 5lb book provides lots of practice. Kaplan will cover your analytical writing part, it's very helpful.As ETS conducts gre, have a good look at the study materials ETS provides, those will be the closest to your actual gre questions.GRE and TOEFL scores are not the only criteria for admission. Make your academic profile strong.For starters, decide which colleges you want to apply, how much average score they need, 320+ is what most colleges keep a check at. After that, schedule your mock tests. (One of the most important parts, which you should not skip). Give the mock by Crunchprep, 30–45 days before your GRE, and see where you stand. Remember once your start giving mocks, it means you are past all the preparation period, this your time to do last minute improvements in the topics you are weak. Give the mock tests by Manhattan, really helpful, will be a bit discouraging, but will motivate you to work harder. Keep the PowerPrep for last 10 days, and try to give them with as calm mindset as you would be giving actual GRE. These two tests will have the closest relevance in terms of difficulty, to your actual exam. Generally, you can expect atleast average of these two scores in your actual exam (provided you give your best shot).And finally, if you haven't made any decision yet, this is the time, buckle up, start your preparations.All The Best!!







Thanks for A2A.To begin with the answer I would like to re-frame your question. Passing the GRE should not be your aim. Think of nailing it. So the first rule is be positive and honest to yourself. Be positive in your approach.Now, coming to how you can nail it. Well it’s pretty simple to sound and even simpler to execute. Sounds ridiculous isn’t it!! Please follow each of the below process as I take you through the alleys to success.Firstly, do a quick fact check. Give one mock from ETS. Test your level where you are lacking and keep in mind that’s the worst possible thing to happen. You will rise from here on.Once the Q&A session of introspection is over its work time. I am assuming you are novice in both the aspects of GRE viz Quant and Verbal and got the least score in the Mock I suggested. Start with Quant and Verbal simultaneously.Verbal Reasoning: Download the Magoosh app and start preparing the Vocab from there. You can also refer to the Barron’s GRE high frequency words. Look for grammar a bit. The book High School Grammar by Wren and Martin comes quite handy.Quantitative Aptitude: Although there are many books available in the market, I will recommend you to take NCERT Maths Text book for class 7 and 8. Brush up all the concepts,practice few sums from every chapter. Wondering of class 7 and 8 !! Trust me they are the best resources and GRE Quant is that much easy.Analytical Writing: Practice writing on several writing tasks. For topics you may refer to YouTube. There are lots of good stuffs over there. Consult some person who has command over English to get your essays checked.Once you are done with it, now it’s Official ETS Book time. Take that book out solve all the practice questions provided there using a timer in front of you. Soon you will see improvement in your performance.Last step is Mocks. Take as many mocks as you can to get accustomed to the scenario and analyze your performance properly. Make taking mocks as a habit so that the D-Day becomes cake walk for you.Last but not the least, keep in mind this is just an exam and you are competing against yourself only. Don’t allow any external factors to manipulate you. It’s should be you, your preparation and the exam.Wish you all the best. Hope it helps. Cheers!!For any further information please feel free to reach out to me.-Kush..







GRE Preparation Tips: GRE is usually the first choice of test for many students who want to pursue their master’s abroad, especially USA. But, before taking the test there could be many questions in your mind like:How difficult is the test?How to prepare for GRE?How to maximize my GRE performance?What kind of resources should I refer to?Let us have a look at the pattern of GRE General test:Verbal Reasoning(Two sections)20 questions per section30 minutes per sectionQuantitative Reasoning(Two sections)20 questions per section35 minutes per sectionAnalytical Writing(One section with two separately timed tasks)One "Analyse an Issue" task and one "Analyse an Argument" task30 minutes per taskHow to prepare for GRE Verbal reasoning:A. Learn new words: Make it a point to learn new words everyday. It is the most important GRE preparation tip. Most importantly, try and use fresh words in your sentences. It is always interesting to play with words and their formations. The exercise does not only introduce new words but also improves your vocabulary to a great extent. If you are in the look-out for new words sites like OALD and Webster can be very helpful.B. Practice Reading Comprehension: Reading Comprehension form a big chunk of the GRE paper. Hence, practice as many reading comprehensions as possible for you. Treat it like mathematics. Practice atleast two to three reading comprehensions in a day.C. Check your grammar: One of the major GRE preparation tips is that Grammar practice plays a very important part . It is not an easy task to learn all the rules of grammar. The easy way here would be to understand the basic usages and very importantly learn your tenses.Quantitative Reasoning:The quantitative reasoning section evaluates the basic mathematical skills of the test taker. You need to have knowledge of the standard mathematical concepts and their application in solving problems.The Quantitative section has two tasks with 20 question each and you will be given 35 minutes to complete each section.How to prepare for GRE Quantitative Reasoning:A. Practice elementary mathematics: If you appearing for GRE it is imperative to make sure your concepts in elementary mathematics are clear. If not, it is time to dust and open your high school books again. The main topics in this section includes Arithmetic, Algebra, Geometry and Data analysis. However, instead of direct questions relating to the topics you will be asked questions needing application of the mathematical concepts. It means the exam tests your confidence in the topic. So, make sure you have your concepts clear before you take your GRE.So, make sure you have solved enough sample papers before the GRE.B. Solve sample paper: One of the effective GRE preparation tips is to solve as many sample papers as possible. Quants is one of the trickier sections fo GRE and it is always preferable to be prepared for the kind of expected questions.C. Practice, practice and more practice: There is one thing that you have to do if you want to ace your GRE Quantitative section i.e Practice, practice and more practice. Repeat the process once you are done. The more you practice the more your concepts will be clear.Analytical WritingThis section measures two important skills of the test-taker. Firstly, your critical thing ability and secondly your analytical writing skills. There are two tasks in this section. One is the “Analyse an Issue" task and the other "Analyse an Argument" task. In the issue task you are required to analyse an issue and develop your opinion around it. In the argument task, you have to analyse an argument and present a position regarding it.How to prepare for GRE Analytical Writing:A. Read: Yes,the trick is simple. Read as much as possible. It will develop your skills in forming an opinion . There is always a way of directing an argument in a manner that is convincing and that only comes from having knowledge on any given topic.B. Practice writing: Take a topic and start writing on it. Make sure the topic is argument based as the GRE test would necessarily present topics on argument is possible. Consider these GRE preparation tips while writing:1. Which direction do you want to give your argument? 2. Jot down all points for or against the issue.3. Filter your points. Select only those points which are based on reason.4. Divide your argument into sections to make your points clear.“We should not give up and we should not allow the problem to defeat us.”All The Best!!!







Are you planning to go to abroad for higher education? If you are, you should be thinking about the GRE which is a standardized test used to get admissions in graduate schools or business school. Getting a high score on GRE is a requirement for admission.How to prepare for GRE is a question of many students today. Let us see some essential steps to ace the GRE.Understand the BasicsKnow the test structurePrepare a StrategyTake many GRE Practice testConcentrate more on GRE Quant SyllabusReview Analytical WritingTrain yourself with GRE Verbal Reasoning Practice Test.This kind of study aid can make an enormous change when test day trolls near, so make sure you take the time to practice, study, and prepare well.Good luck!







It’s like comparing apples and oranges really. GRE and GMAT are very different exams. GMAT has conventionally been used for applying to B-schools whereas GRE is the preferred choice for MS programs. While many b-schools, primarily in the US, have now started accepting GRE scores for MBA programs, one needs a different type of aptitude to score high in either of the two exams.Hence, calling any of the two ‘better’ or ‘easier’ than the other is really a misnomer. Perhaps a simpler way to understand this is through the distinction that if you’re an MBA aspirant with a ‘traditional’ profile, in that you have some experience in the conventional industries such as Banking or Consulting, then GMAT is a more suitable exam for you. On the other hand, if you’re interested in cinema studies or have experience in a similar though atypical industry, then you might fare better in GRE.Also, if you take the GRE and then apply for an MBA program then you must have a pretty good reason to justify this to the ad com as they will wonder why you took the GRE and not the GMAT if you actually want to do an MBA and this may reflect on your decision making skills if this reason does not come out clearly through your application package.Another note of caution: In case you’re under the impression that you’ll find the GRE easier if you’re better in English than in Math then you’re mistaken. The GRE English is not that easy and many of those who otherwise have a good command over the language falter in the GRE English!Net-Net: If you have a conventional profile of the Indian test taker and want to pursue an MBA from abroad, you’re much better off taking the GMAT. It’s a standardized test that has changed very little since its inception and is a pretty good test of your managerial skills which the GMAC is actually trying to assess through this computer adaptive test.Hope this helps.All the best for your test prep.







For admission applications, MBA programs nowadays are increasingly accepting the GRE in addition to the GMAT. As more and more students are frequently looking for the best option to opt from, here you have some helping tips to make a clear decision. Across the nation, graduate programs are required to submit their GRE score or a GMAT score.Although GMAT is primarily used in the business school application process and the GRE is generally used for the graduate majors, but there are many programs which independently give an option to the applicants to choose an option. If you are luckily being given an option to pick an option, make sure that you choose one that you can master more conveniently.As both the tests are given on a computer and contain a good amount of similarity between the sections, you should examine the specific contents of each test to make the proper choice.Click Here to compare section of each test between GRE and GMAT.Also, try our Chances Of B-School tool to evaluate your profile by entering your profile details.“Chances of B-School” is a unique tool to analyze your real time chances of getting an admission to a top MBA program based on your GMAT score, work experience, your career aspirations, academics, self-analysis of your essays and interview skills. This tool will help you to focus your thoughts; by giving a factual picture of the B-Schools you have a good chance of getting an admission. We at General Education believe that finding the right school is a crucial decision and it has to be done with the help of exhaustive data and statistics.







GRE and GMAT are two very distinct exams which are attempted by individuals for gaining admissions in some of the top universities in the world. While the GRE is written by candidates to get admitted into the MS (Master’s degree) program, the GMAT exam is given by individuals who would want to pursue their MBA program at some of the top B-schools across the world. Since you have not given sufficient information on what your aspirations are it will be difficult to answer your question directly. You will be able to make your choice of GRE/GMAT only after you are certain about which degree you would like to pursue. If you would like to gain more expertise in your chosen field of study and improve your technical knowledge then it is recommended that you opt for a MS degree. You also have the opportunity to get into research oriented jobs on completion of your MS degree. Therefore you will have to attempt your GRE exam for the same. However if you would like to study managerial concepts and improve your leadership skills, communication, teamwork, business acumen etc then you should go for an MBA degree. An MBA equips you in many ways and assists you to boost your salary, switch your career and even rise up to top management positions in the company.Hence it is advised that you make an informed decision after weighing all the pros and cons.Good Luck!







GMAT and GRE are both standardized tests; former for Business schools and the latter for all Graduate programs. Although some B schools accept GRE score but it is better you confirm if the school you are looking to get admission in accepts the same.Primarily, GMAT is only for Business school programs. Many top accredited B Schools like Stanford and Harvard accept GRE scores.Big Ben Language School has expert faculty to train students who are looking for focused and score oriented and specific practice and class sessions. Our targeted classroom and study sessions ensure that students get the precise results they desire. Our professional trainers provide flexible sessions to accommodate the need of the students aiding them with perfection.Big Ben - The Languages SchoolOffice No-1007,10th FloorTower A Office No-318/311A,Tower B,The Ithum Building, Block A-40,Sector-62 Noida, Uttar PradeshIndia - 201309Phone - +91-9599577336Email ID - helpline@bblanguages.comWebsite. GMAT Coaching Classes Noida Ghaziabad GMAT Preparation Institutes In Delhi







I personally believe the GMAT is much better and more beneficial to you over the long run, but let me present you the differences between the GRE and GMAT so you can make an educated decision yourself.UsesGMAT is used mainly by business or management schools as a requirement for admission into their programme while the GRE TEST is used to apply to a variety of graduate school programmes. However most business schools now accept the GRE TEST for entry into their programmeCostThe registration fee for GMAT is $250 irrespective of where you are in the world while it costs $205 to register for the GRE TEST General Test in most countries and $150 to register for the GRE TEST Subject TestTest StructureThe GRE TEST is made up of a 60 minute Analytical Writing section, with two essays which takes 30 minutes each. It also consists of two 30 minute Quantitative Reasoning sections and a 30-35 minute experimental section which is either math or verbal.Read more at GRE Test vs. GMAT Test: Which One is Best For You?







If you're naturally inclined to do better in one test over another (and your schools of choice accept both), why not stick with your strengths? The GMAT is considered tougher in the math department due to its data sufficiency questions, while the GRE Verbal section's emphasis on vocabulary can make it tougher for non-native speakers and those who don't regularly read complex literature.The GRE includes an ungraded experimental section. The experimental section isn't marked as such, which can be a source of paranoia and frustration for those who wish to spend their mental energy on questions that contribute to their score.Also, certain test centers around the world do not offer a computer-based GRE, so depending on which country you are in, you may need to take it on paper. Note that the paper test does not include an experimental or research section. If you do take a paper-based GRE, you will see five additional questions in each of the Verbal and Quantitative sections. You will be given an extra five minutes on the Verbal section, but will not receive additional time on the Quantitative section. It remains at 30 minutes.Ultimately, the GRE and GMAT have more in common than they have differences. To succeed at either, you'll need mastery of essential math—algebra, arithmetic, geometry, data analysis—as well as reading and critical reasoning skills and efficient test-taking strategies.







Dear GRE Aspirant,The main purpose of GRE is to judge your proficiency on the basis of the mathematical, logical and verbal aptitudes. Graduate schools use GRE to assess your readiness to undertake a full-time Graduate Program at a university abroad.While numerous books have published by various sources that act as appropriate training material, there are a handful of books that give you a detailed conceptual learning.Some of these are:#1 The Holy Book: The Official Guide to the GREThis must-have book while preparing for the test is the one straight from the test makers - ETS. It gives you a comprehensive overview of the entire test as a whole and helps you to get a better hang of the test format, pattern and question types.The Official Guide explains everything about the test in detail from the different question modes, scoring and time systems, the purpose of every section, the section descriptions and the question examples in each section distributed by difficulty level. It comprises of the GRE Math Review and there are practice questions at the end of each Math section of this review. In addition, the Guide comes with 4 practice tests – 2 paper based and 2 computer based that are in the CD that accompanies the book. While this book is the most authentic source for all sections of the test, it seriously lacks the practice questions in number and difficulty levels too. You can use this Guide to gain an overview of the tests, however, using only this book for the test could be a serious drawback due to lack of practice materials.#2 The Holy Trinity: Official Super Power PackThis set does its name complete justice – it is indeed the Power Pack that comprises of the aforementioned Official Guide along with two more books for extensive practice.You can gain a very serious understanding of the questions that will be in the test and also practice them in plenty using this aptly named power pack. Since this is an official source, all the information will be related to adequate practice and strategies to solve difficult questions. It would not cover some essential time-saving tricks that will help you get an upper hand in the test#3 The Heavyweight Champion: Manhattan 5lbAnother aptly named test guide, the Manhattan 5 lb is a book that actually weighs more than 5 lb. It comprises of practice materials for each section that has been segregated according to the topics.This book can prove to be immensely helpful in making the concepts concrete through the massive selection of practice questions and the detailed descriptions for the answers. Also the book helps you get familiar with some tricks that will prove essential on the test day – for both Quants and Verbal. Many test takers have claimed this book to be as close to the actual test as anything can be. However, if you are looking at it from a study or introductory guide’s point of view, you would be disappointed since it for practice only.All in all, it’s a guide that you would approach after you are sure of your primary study and are confident of solving the questions.#4 Make your own Menu: Manhattan Prep's 8 GRE Strategy GuidesAnother one of Manhattan Prep wonders – there are 8 guides however this time instead of 5lb worth of practice data all in one. It also comes along with 6 computer based practice. As opposed to the 5lb, this book has divided each and every component of the test into 8 different books that again in a contrasting move to the 5 lb book – have detailed description of the concepts, the different question types for these concepts, the detailed answers and tricks for solving these answers successfully and in a timely manner. Do note that this book focuses more on the theories and solving techniques and the practice questions are comparatively lesser in number. You can choose the concept that you are lagging in and study it using the specific guide.#5 The Beginner’s Handbook: Cracking the GRE Premium by Princeton ReviewThis handbook is more like an introductory manual for the GRE. It is a complimentary book to the Official Guide and it provides a lot more theoretical data. It comes along with 2 computer based tests with detailed explanations and includes access to the online video tutorials of Princeton Review.However, that is all that it is – a book for the beginners. The fact that the book consists mainly of general overview is a serious drawback. You would need to practice for the GRE using alternative sources since the book lacks extensive practice materials.#6 The All Inclusive Trifecta: GRE Complete by KaplanThis Kaplan Prep system comes with the 3 books – Quants, Verbal and Premier (tests and strategies); an access to the online question bank, 5 practice tests, an online study plan and lastly a CD with information about the tests and grad school application process as a whole.This set is indeed a thorough guide to the test and lacks neither the practice data nor the explanatory data. The partially paper based and partially computer based data makes it a very conveniently adaptive format of study.However, the book seems to lack adequate number of questions for the quantitative section.#7 Know your numbers!: GRE Math Prep Course by NovaThis book, as the title suggests, concentrates only on the Quantitative Aptitude section of the test.While there are other, more comprehensive and all sections inclusive books published by Nova (eg. GRE Complete Prep Course), Nova press is best known for this Math wonder. It includes the concepts broken down into categories that are essentially created by them. It helps you know the type of strategies necessary to tackle your weak areas and practice the same using a plethora of available questions. Also, the questions are broken down by the difficulty level which makes it easier to track the level of progress. Extra sources for Verbal would have to be referred since this specific book is limited to the Quant section only.#8 Know your words!: Barron’s SourcesUnlike the Nova book, Barron’s publishes study material mainly for the Verbal section – the vocabulary related data.While there are a number of books that you can refer, Barron’s GRE is the most popular book which is an advanced guide to practice the tougher questions from all sections. Besides this, Barron’s is reputed for the vocabulary related data it publishes like the word lists that based on the frequency of the words on the tests like Barron’s 333 and Essential Words for GRE. Barron’s is one source that would be trickier for those who don’t have their basics in place or those who plan to prepare last minute.Even though a lot of books might help you in your GRE preparation, it is always advisable to have a study plan that will help you differentiate your stronger and weaker areas.While books might help you with concepts, it is always better if you get personalized attention for GRE as you can immediately clarify all your doubts as and when they arise.Make it a point to choose the best method of learning and this will help you score high.According to me, to prepare for an online test, methods with online preparation and actual test experience providers is very important. Check GREedge for GRE and Admission guidance to score better GRE scores and best Admits.All the best and Happy learning!







GRE Preparation Books and GRE Study Materials:Educational Testing Service (ETS): The conducting authority of GRE, ETS produces some of the best GRE preparation books. In fact, ETS’s official GRE study materials are must buys for every GRE aspirant. The advantage of preparing from ETS guides is that the sample papers and practice sets are in sync with the actual GRE test. The best in the series is of course the ETS super power pack which includes a bundle of verbal and quantitative GRE preparation books, test preparation materials, expert tips among others. Besides, ETS offers a comprehensive guide which aims at clearing conceptual doubts of the sections.List of ETS GRE study materials:Official super power packThe Official Guide to the GREThe Official Guide to the quantitative reasoningThe Official Guide to verbal reasoningManhattan prep: Manhattan prep’s books are some of the most popular GRE study materials for GRE aspirants.Of course, like in ETS you can go for the whole set or individual GRE preparation books. The Manhattan Prep GRE set includes 8 guides ontopics likeWord problems, decimals, Number properties, algebra among others.A word of caution here-Don’t use the Manhattan prep GRE set as a last minute study tool. This comprehensive set should be a part of your elaborate preparation strategy while you are attempting the topics.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Manhattan Prep:5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems500 Essential Words: GRE Vocabulary Flash CardsManhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesKaplan: Study abroad exams and Kaplan go hand in hand.The education provider has not only been guiding students in their preparation but also offers a wide range of GRE study materials for students preparing for the test. Kaplan’s most popular package is an annual GRE Premier and GRE Complete. Kaplan’s GRE premier has an incredible 2200 practice questions and 6 full length practice tests. Further, it also includes an online QuizBank which has 500 questions for the aspirants to solve.List of GRE preparation books and GRE study materials by Kaplan:GRE Premier 2016 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Premier 2017 with 6 Practice TestsGRE Vocabulary FlashcardsGRE Math WorkbookGRE 2017 Strategies, Practice & Review with 4 Practice TestsBarron’s: Known as a master test prep provider, Barron’slist of GRE preparation books offer a comprehensive set of tips and practice tests for GRE aspirants. Barron’s GRE is of course the most popular of the lot. Currently, in its 21st edition, the GRE study materials contains strategies for all the sections- verbal, analytical, and quantitative along with model tests and answer keys. What more. Barron’s GRE study material also gives the buyer free access to its GRE online courses including practice questions and video tutorials.Virant: Vibrant brings out one of the few good GRE preparation books which cater to the analytical writing section of GRE. The most popular of the lot is the latest edition of Vibrant’s GRE Analytical Writing, which offers very simple and clear strategies to ace this section.Best part about these GRE preparation books is that they offer sample essays on topics similar to that which come in GRE tests.GRE preparation- Online and practice sets: There are many GRE study materials available online that students can use besides books. In fact, you have the option of downloading pdfs on the various topics. You can even take mock tests online to check your time-management skills. You can either download the materials or buy online preparation kits Besides that, you can also refer to IELTS preparation sample papers.







You should definitely get the ETS Official Guides for the GRE if taking the exam before August 1 or Revised GRE if taking the exam after Aug 1.Barron's has been and still is great for their list of vocab words.  A common misconception is that the new/revised GRE doesn't test vocab.  The revised GRE does test vocab, however it's vocab in context meaning that you will have clues from a sentence to help you. So Barron's is still a good bet.The GRE Big Book (again by ETS) is arguably the best source of practice questions for the GRE. It contains over 5,000 questions from 27 actual tests.  The major catch is that it's not longer sold by ETS, but you could search for used ones. I've seen them go for as much as $300.Outside of books, online/computer-based tools are also great for GRE prep as they provide an experience more similar to the actual exam than books do.  Again, ETS is the best source of questions with their Powerprep (for the current GRE) and Powerprep 2 (for the revised GRE). But Powerprep lacks explanations to questions.  My company, Magoosh (http://gre.magoosh.com), has online products for both the current GRE and the new GRE with video explanations for most questions.  There are several others with products for the current GRE and I have yet to see another company with a new GRE online product with the new question types.I'd suggest using a combination of books and computer-based tools to prep. And using the Powerprep tests to assess your progress.







Recommended Books - These books are highly recommended for GRE preparation, listed with their pros and cons -1) The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test. By ETS.A must have because right now since ETS is more knowledgeable than any one else about the new format of GRE.Includes around 100 sample questions organized according to difficulty level.Has real essays written by test takers along with the ETS people’s evaluation and comments.2) Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesThese books are great.Majority of them (6 out of 8) are devoted to math: Algebra, fractions, geometry, number properties, word problems and quantitative comparisons. The practice questions in Math are divided into three sections easy, medium and hard.There are two books devoted to the verbal section: Reading comprehension and Text completion & sentence equivalences. The books dealing with verbal section consists of more challenging questions than what actually appears in the test.The interface is very similar to that of the actual test, and so is the difficulty.3) Barron’s New GREA good book for Quant.Does not have the word listYou can download the word list online or xerox it from an old Barron’s.Includes sample tests.Also includes a CD with stimulated tests (around 2).Other Books - The above mentioned books are actually enough for all the preparation you will need. But if you want some more books for extra practise, consider the following -3) Cracking the NEW GRE by Princeton.A good book for practice. Nothing special though.4) Kaplan NEW GRE PremierI have not used the book personally, but my friends swear this book is the reason they score high in their exam.Apart from that, I recommend getting your hands on the following too -(i) Nova GRE Math Bible (softcopy) - Excellent for math preparation. Has 1000s of questions organized according to difficulty levels and topics. Must Have!(ii) Voca Game based on Barron’s Word List - An excellent refreshing multiple choice game where you need to guess a word’s meaning. Has ALL Barron’s Words.(iii) Big Book (softcopy) - This book had a lot of old GRE papers but is now out of publication. Even though it has old GRE questions, they really help you increase your reading speed for RCs and test your words memory as well.You will also find the following online resources handy when preparing for the GRE -1) Practice tests and resources for high school, college and graduate tests - Though their RCs section has weird questions and answers.2) Home | Tyrannosaurus Prep - A fun word game for GRE and SAT though don’t rely solely on it to learn words as they do not have even half the important words that are present in Barrons. YOU CANNOT ESCAPE BARRON’S WORD LIST.Other Tips for GRE -Apart from that, here are some tips that you might find useful during your preparation-Preparing by yourself is absolutely fine. But if you do want to join a class, join Princeton/Kaplan classes (Quite expensive though). Or prepare on your own. Certainly doable.You need at least 2-3 months of preparation.Verbal preparation and memorizing words consume 80% of the time for most students. Start with high frequency word lists (around 500 words) to remember the important words first. Easily available on net. Then go on to Barron’s 5000 words list.You need to do Barron’s 5000 word list at least 2-3 times to remember most of the words.Don’t ignore math. Students often loose a lot of marks due to silly mistakes.READ THE QUESTIONS PROPERLY! Don’t ponder too long on a question though. Mark it for review and move on!







Attending school, we often forget about an appropriate time for learning. How long you should study for the is an important consideration. However, there is no one simple answer. The Graduate Record Exam (GRE) is an exam taken by college graduates who are applying to graduate school. The GRE General Test is composed of three sections: verbal reasoning, analytic reasoning, and analytic writing. The four books listed below offer instructions on how to complete each section of the test, strategies for being successful before and during the test, and practice questions to get you ready for test day. While there are a lot of study guides out there, these four are the top in the industry and earned the reputation they deserve by providing high-quality material that prepares students for this important exam. With one of these books and some hard work and dedication, you can be on your way to earning a high score on the GRE and entrance into your graduate school of choice. Click https://pro-homework-help.com if you need help in study. If you are a quantum physicist with a penchant for vocab who enjoys spending your time, solving convoluted math problems you do not need much time for preparation. If cramming means two to three weeks, then you don’t have to be our aforementioned quantum physicist. For those that are relatively adept at math, you can score well with little preparation. Preparation for the test will depend on the amount of time you have available and your personal preferences for how to prepare. When taking the computer-delivered GRE General Test, you are free to skip questions that you might have difficulty answering. The testing software has a "mark and review" feature that enables you to mark questions you would like to revisit during the time provided to work on that section. The testing software also lets you view a complete list of all the questions in the section on which you're working, indicates whether you've answered each question and identifies the questions you've marked for review. The GRE is broken down into three primary components: verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, and analytical writing. For the verbal reasoning section, test takers have two 30-minute periods to answer two sets of 20 questions. Test-takers answer two sets of 20 quantitative reasoning questions, with 35 minutes to answer each set. The analytical writing section consists of two essays, for which test takers get 30 minutes to write each. The verbal and quantitative reasoning sections are graded on a 130- to 170-point scale in 1-point increments, and the analytical writing section is scored on a 0-6 scale in half-point increments.Every student decides what he or she needs for an exam, what resources are better, etc. Many GRE test takers are many years removed from the basic tenets of high school math, which play an important part in the quantitative section of the test. If you're rusty, it's important to revisit the concepts of algebra and geometry that you learned in high school. During your time in school, be sure to read as much as possible to expand your vocabulary so that you can decipher unfamiliar words, testing experts say.ETS: GRE The Official Guide to the Revised General TestEducational Testing Services (ETS), the maker of the GRE, offers the only official guide to the test. Known as the authoritative guide to the GRE for good reason, because it's made by the same company who creates the test, it is one of the most recommended test-taking guides. This guide has a good reputation because they can prepare you for exactly what you should expect on the test. This guide comes with four complete real test (two are available using the included CD-ROM), hundreds of authentic test questions, detailed descriptions of the Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning Content Areas including tips for answering each type of question, and an overview of the two types of Analytic Writing Tasks you will encounter on the test including scored sample responses with actual raters' comments.GRE Prep 2017 with 8 Practice TestsTest Prep (Argo Brothers) Lot of practice questions. It's like condensed form of Kaplan with useful information. Good book if you want to practice lot of questions in 1-2 weeks. It has lot of typos as reported by some users but highly recommended. If you have any questions or if you need any clarification on any problem then you can submit a free ticket on their website (it's a free service)Manhattan PrepManhattan Prep, a leader in test-taking readiness, offers a wide range of products to help you prepare for the exam. They offer 8 test-taking strategy guides, focusing on each of the tests content areas including Algebra; Fractions, Decimals, & Percents; Geometry; Number Properties; and Word Problems. Also available from Manhattan Prep is the book "Reading Comprehension & Essays GRE Strategy Guide," 500 Essential Words: GRE Vocasbulary flashcards, and more.Barron's GRE: 21st EditionBarron is a name that is well-known in the testing industry and their GRE preparation book stands up to the name. This 624 page book comes with one diagnostic test and two full-length models of the actual test structure reflected in the GRE exam. Additionally, not only are all answers provided for the sample tests but Barron provides explanations for the answers as well to help you fully prepare for what you will encounter on the GRE. With purchase of this book you can access to Barron's online GRE Course and ipad app for essay preparation.Kaplan's GRE Premier 2017This comprehensive new package includes strategies, test taking instructions, and practice questions to help you tackle this difficult exam. This book also includes a digital iPad download and DVD and online access to 22,00+ questions. It offers 6 online Practice Tests. You also get free DVD and mobile application to study. This book is stocked with a wealth of test-taking strategies to ensure you are successful. Kaplan also provides academic support from faculty on their Facebook page and a guarantee that if you use their resources and strategies you will score higher on the GRE General Test or receive a full refund.Best GRE Books 2016 – 2017 | GRE Book ReviewsWhile here at Magoosh, I’ve reviewed the all best GRE prep books over the years. Today, I’m happy to announce that I’ve made some updates to our Best GRE Books List! While not all of these books are from this year (some are far from it), the list offers my honest GRE book reviews and recommendations for the best GRE book options on the market.Best GRE Books 2016 – 2017It’s 2016 and, to be honest, not a lot has changed in the GRE prep book landscape in the last few years. This is good news for you—you can head to Amazon and buy inexpensive (new or used) versions of many of the best GRE books below and know that you’re not sacrificing quality for price.In this post, I list the best GRE prep books on the market and explain the positives and negatives of each. If you’re just interested in reading about one or two, use the links in the Table of Contents to jump to that section of the post.Best GRE Prep BooksWithout any further ado, I present you with the list of the top 8 best GRE prep books (in order) and three books deserving of an honorable mention (in no particular order).Most publishers change very little content from one edition to the other. If I can save you money by recommending an old edition of a great book, then I’m going to do that!1. Magoosh GRE BookBetween the covers, this 468-page book packs more than a hundred practice questions accompanied by comprehensive explanations—all pulled directly from our renowned online GRE prep product. Not only is the book loaded with tons of useful information, but each question and answer has been triple checked by industry experts to maximize students’ learning.2. Free GRE eBooksTangible or not, the eBooks are free and they provide a wealth of helpful strategies. Along with the rest of Magoosh’s free GRE resources, they are a great way to start your GRE journey, before deciding on which book to purchase.3. ETS’s The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test, 2nd EditionThis is the holy grail of prep. If you can only buy one book, this is it. The tone of the voice may not be as friendly as almost any other book on the market. But if you can bear the dry content, you are getting by far the best practice since ETS writes the questions for the test.Throw in two GRE computer-based tests, which are in a CD that accompanies the book, and the best GRE book on the market gets even better.4. ETS’s Official GRE Verbal Reasoning Practice Questions & Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning Practice QuestionsThe strategies are nothing new (you can learn all of those from this blog), but this book is a must-buy, if only for the quality of its practice questions. The Quantitative Reasoning book, on the other hand, contains both helpful practice problems and useful new strategies. A word of warning: these new math problems are really challenging. They’ll definitely require some extra attention, and will help you up your quant game.5. Barron’s 6 GRE Practice TestsThis book is not perfect. But it is better than the Barron’s general GRE guide.6. Practicing to Take the GRE General Test, 10th EditionThis is a version of the old GRE, and the old, old GRE at that (the tests were taken from 1991, a year some of you had yet to enter the world). Yes, the math is much easier. Still, these are questions created by the writers of test, so the traps are classical GRE. I wouldn’t use this as a foundation for my GRE test prep, but check out the review to see if it’s a good fit for your studies: Practicing to Take the GRE, 10th Edition Book Review.The Reading Comprehension passages are still tough and make for good practice. And while they’ve cut the Antonym and Analogy sections, the antonym questions still make for good practice (the analogies contain many ridiculous words, such as names of tools and sewing implements).7. The Manhattan GRE Series (MGRE) – Books One Through EightThs series contains eight (mostly excellent) books written by those with years of tutoring experience. This fact really shines through in the authorial voice this series uses. You feel as though there is a highly intelligent, but fun, laid back tutor walking you through the material.The six free online tests you get by simply buying any one of the eight books makes MGRE a no-brainer if you want expert guidance and great practice.8. Vibrant’s GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to Real Essay Topics BooksBook 1These books from Vibrant Publishing GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to Real Essay Topics and GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to the Real Essay Topics – Book 2 are a welcome addition to the GRE literature scene. Not because they’re perfect, but because they contain GRE sample essays … something few books have. They’ll help you craft a decent response to a range of GRE essay topics. Not required reading, but definitely helpful if you want to improve your essay score.GRE Book Honorable MentionThis book is generally substandard, and if after reading my review (see below), you are surprised I’m pairing it with this top five list, then I owe a quick explanation: the inclusion of the The Princeton Review book speaks to the generally low quality of GRE prep books out there.9. The Princeton Review, Cracking the GRE, 2017 EditionThese strategies are mostly absent from the Official Guide (though I share similar strategies in the eBook and on the blog).That said, two major caveats: Do not use this book if you are looking for a high score. The strategies are very generic; they apply to most standardized tests, and they won’t help you understand the nuances or advanced concepts in the GRE. Secondly, do not do the questions, unless you are scoring way below 50% and are just starting off on the GRE. From this book glean some helpful strategies that you can use on actual test questions. Otherwise, this book is not of much use.Since this book remains almost exactly the same from year to year, here’s the review of an older version: Princeton Review: Cracking the New GRE 2012 Book Review10. Kaplan New GRE Premier 2011-2012 Book ReviewThe 2014 Kaplan book is no different from the previous two years. Test prep strategies that are very high-level and not that innovative, followed by subpar questions. That is, these questions aren’t like what you’ll see test day in terms of difficulty or style. It’s better to not waste one’s time with this book.McGraw Hill’s New GRE with 8 Practice TestsHere are dozens, if not hundreds, of GRE books on the market. Good luck!







For all those who are preparing for GRE / TOEFL exams, Here's a collection of all materials (Books, Notes, Videos, Audio) I used.Simple steps1. Go to link - ETS-material - Google Drive2. Download the zipNote - Since file size is large, download can take considerable amount of time.PS - If you have more notes and want to share, send it via mail.GRE materialTo answer your question, these are some of the GRE Books5lbMagooshNovaETS Official GUide to GRE 2nd EditionGruberBarron's GRE 12th EditionPrinceton WordsPrinceton Review - Verbal WorkoutRS Agarwal Quantitative AptitudeManhattan GRE 2nd EditionGRE Practice TestBigBookCracking the GRE 2013 EditionSeries501 Series (includes Reading Comprehension, Sentence Completion, Quantitative exams)800 Series (Verbal tests)Essay preparation, Math Review booksWord Power Made Easy solutionBunch of Word lists -ManhattanBarronKaplan84018533000#GRE #TOEFL #ETS #Preparations #Masters







Universities look at a candidates complete profile. Let’s take your case as an example since you have done a great job in providing most of your details. What do universities look at when evaluating a profile:Quantitative scores: Grades, GRE scores etc. Your latest grade, 67% in BE, is an average score. Your GRE score, all sections are on the lower side. For MS in any engineering or science program, universities place importance on Quants, then AW, then verbal. So score above 163–165 on Quants, at least 4.0 on AW and above the minimum required for verbal (which should be listed on the universities website) or at the very least 1 standard deviation below the average (some universities list average scores instead of minimum). I recommend reading GRE Scores - The Good, Bad and Ugly for in depth insights on GRE scores.Ranking of your bachelor’s university: A 60% in IIT is valued much more than 90% in a Sido Kanhu Murmu University type university.SOP: This is the heart of your application. A well written statement can get you into your top choice university. A well-thought out SOP has the following qualities:Unique. It has to be about you. Your story, your goals, your personality should shine through, reasons why you want to apply to this particular university etc. Uniqueness gives rise to…Authenticity. Be genuine. Don’t make up stories or challenges you overcame. Authenticity also comes from…Depth. When thinking about your goals, the reasons you want to apply to a university, focus on depth. The more you think about reasons for each and every decision, the more authentic it will be. Keep asking yourself questions. Don’t settle on an answer till you’re satisfied with it. Get to the point where no one can break through your reasoning for any decision. With depth comes…Specifics. Answer each question with details. If you can’t answer a question, research. Find out why you want to go to a particular university or why you want to apply to a particular degree. Write out specifics in…Simple, effective language. There’s no need for eloquent literature or Shakespearean English. Keep it simple, clear and easily understandable while also being…To the point. Don’t beat around the bush. Write crisp sentences, get your point across quickly and move on to the next point.I have a detailed blog post about the must haves in your statement of purpose.LOR: Just like a restaurant has to have great reviews before you eat there, so do you to get into a good university. It seems that you have this covered.With all this in mind (and without reading your SOP), I think USF, ASU and Northeastern are safe choices. You’re on the borderline for UF and UTD.Good luck!Edit:Additionally, a score of 302 for your GRE is on the lower side. Your best bet is to increase your GRE scores above 310 or 315.I’ve captured this sentiment in depth here! Enjoy!







Thanks for A2AA GRE score of 302 can take you places...maybe not the Ivy Leagues and the top 10 grad-schools, but places nonetheless!What Universities Can I Target with GRE: 300-310?To start with, here are a few of the ‘achievable’ universities you can target with a GRE score in the range of 300-310:Texas A&M KingsvilleSUNY BuffaloSUNY Stony BrookUT-DallasUT-ArlingtonSJSUThe University of Louisiana - LafayetteIllinois Institute of Technology - ChicagoRochester Institute of TechnologyUniversity of HoustonDownload GRE Cutoff scores for top 35 US Universities hereBut does this mean you can’t target the TOP 25 with your score?GRE score requirements are not concrete, and there are several instances of students who land above-average or top admits, despite a GRE score not even close to the university average score of admitted students. We’ll analyze a few of those profiles at the end, so if that’s what you’re looking for, just scroll to the bottom of the answer!Let’s now find out how good a 300-310 GRE score is in terms of both percentiles and required GRE scores of some popular programs.Is 302 a Good Score?The truth is, the universities don’t look at your total GRE score, but the individual scores obtained in the Verbal, Quant, and even the AWA section - though it’s marked separately. Hence, how good your score is, depends on these factors:Your Verbal & Quants percentile scoresThe GRE score required for that program/university.Checkout our eBOOK on 5 Techniques to score 170 in QuantsLet’s talk percentiles. Percentiles are a measure of what percentage of other GRE takers have a score lower than you. Hence, the higher your percentile, the better your chances!ETS, the organization that conducts the GRE calculates percentiles separately for Verbal, Quant, and AWA.As you mentioned, you have a 144 and 158 on your Verbal and Quants section respectively.Take a look at your individual score percentiles below (source: ETS)Decoding the Data - What matters more for you?Broadly speaking you need a higher score on the section more closely related to your field. STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering & Mathematics) Courses like Computer Science, in your case, place more emphasis on a higher Quants percentile whereas Ph.D. courses in thesis-based subjects often require a higher verbal score!Noticed how the Verbal percentiles are higher than Quant percentiles throughout?The difference between verbal and quants scores is especially more pronounced in countries such as India where more students score better in the Quants section owing to a higher priority given to developing mathematical skills coupled with the engineering background that most test-takers share! Thus, to get a higher Quants percentile, you’d need a higher Quants score than Verbal!Aiming for a high Quants Score? Then Download GRE Quant Formula Book for a perfect 170 ScoreWhat is a Good Percentile?Roughly speaking, any score above the 50% mark is considered good, with a percentile above 70% considered excellent!This means, a score of 151 or more on Verbal and 153 or more in Quant is considered good. Anything below that and it means that most test-takers scored higher than you.Given the fact that your Quants score is 158, and you’re applying to a STEM course, you’re already at an advantage - with your score being higher than almost 70% of test takers!Now, coming to what you really wanted to know…What is the BEST you can target with your score?Your admits are only as good as your profile is - of which your GRE is JUST one part!The internet is jam-packed with the score requirements of universities and the average GRE scores of students admitted.But does that mean that these boundaries are set in stone? Definitely not!There are several instances of students who land above-average or top admits, despite a GRE score that’s even close to the average score of admitted students.You can also get into some very prestigious universities by applying to niche courses, or having skills that aren’t really commonplace. Applying to universities with a large intake like say, SJSU or USC helps too!So what else do the universities consider? Your CGPA, Resume (your academic credentials, work experience, internships, and paper publications), SOP and LORs, to name some!Want to evaluate your profile? Evaluate hereTo illustrate the above, let's take a look at 3 students with very different profiles and career goals who enrolled for admission counseling at GREedge, with GRE scores between 300-305, AND the admits they got.Profile 1:Arushi Patro:Texas A&M University College Station (Ranked #14 among Top US Universities)MS in Electrical Engineering_________________________GRE Score: 301 (Quant: 153, Verbal: 148, AWA: 3.5)College GPA: 8.8TOEFL: 105 / 120Work Experience: 0Internships/Training: Yes (Industrial training at Bharat Sanchar Nigam Limited (BSNL) on telecom infrastructure & broadband networking)Additional Profile Positives: Was the student coordinator at the International Conference on Microelectronics, Electromagnetics, and Telecommunication (ICMEET)With the average GRE score of students at TAMU being 316 (V: 152, Q: 164), how did Arushi manage to get accepted with a score of 301?Here’s taking a look at her profile positives:Her GPA and TOEFL scores definitely worked in her favor, as did her training at BSNL and work as a student coordinator at ICMEET (in capacities directly related to her chosen MS course)Along with this, proper planning of her admission process and a strong SOP demonstrating her interest to shine in the field of electrical engineering gave her profile the final push it needed to obtain an admit!How to write a winning SOP? Checkout hereProfile 2:Rishabh Bhardwaj:Northeastern University (Ranked #37 among Top US Universities)MS in Engineering Management (Departement of Mechanical Engineering)_________________________GRE Score: 303 (Quant: 157, Verbal: 146, AWA: 3)College GPA: 7.38IELTS: 7.5 band overallWork Experience: Trainee at ITC (Worked on Industrial Management of Tobacco Processing by Implementing Inventory Control)Additional Profile Positives:Worked on developing a MATLAB simulation for speed control of a motor using fuzzy logicWorked independently on implementing an ‘Object Sorting Mechanism’ using ArduinoEarned certifications in LabVIEW and Embedded SystemsNow, despite a GRE score of 303, and an average GPA, he was able to get into a highly competitive stream at one of the Top 50 universities.Once again, relevant training, certifications and niche skills like knowledge of using the Arduino computing platform were profile positives that helped him secure his admit.A strong SOP and a perfectly planned admissions timeline helped too!Profile 3:Ravindra:Northeastern University (Ranked #37 among Top US Universities)MS in MIS (Management Information Systems)_________________________GRE Score: 303 (Quant: 161, Verbal: 142, AWA: 3)College GPA: 5.78 (13 backlogs)TOEFL: 80 / 120If you’re thinking how he possibly managed to get accepted to NEU, well, there’s a lot more to Ravindra than his scores!Here’s a sneak peek into the positives his profile had!Work Experience:Worked in a newspaper and magazine business, managing the distribution of magazines and articles, handling the company’s accounts, and overseeing the work done by employees, all of which helped him develop strong skills in management, conflict resolution & communication.Completed a PG certification in Java to develop expertise in RDBMS, MySQL, Core and Advanced Java, Spring, Hibernate, PHP, and C++, among other programming languages.Joined a startup as a PHP coder where he developed a website for users to sell scrap materials and other products to be recycled, completely online. This helped him garner experience in website development and build expertise in technologies such as PHP and MySQLThese are pretty enterprising ventures for a student to take on, and the admissions council too felt the same way.Proper presentation of your skills and profile positives on your Statement of Purpose can go a long way in helping you overcome the weaknesses in your profile.Of course, all this translated into multiple MS admits to the stream of choice!Making the best of what you’ve got:To sum it all up, your GRE score of 302 can do much more for you than you thought.If retaking your GRE is not an option, there are a lot of other things you can do to bolster your chances of getting to your dream universities!Work on building your strengths in other aspects of your profile, go get that certification you’ve always wanted, take up an internship in your field of interest - all of these can really add up and give your profile a boost!Shortlist your favorite universities well in advance and do some research about the kind of students they’re looking for, and apply to those that you feel are the best fit for your profile!Download our eBOOK on The SELECT Strategy to Shortlist UniversitiesLastly, don’t forget to document all that you’ve done in your resume and SOPs, along with telling the universities just how much you deserve an admit given your interests & career aspirations!Here’s wishing you the very best with your applications and I hope you get the admits you’ve always wanted!







Ruili, both the verbal and quantitative GRE scores have a range from 130 to 170 - average 150. So the combined average is 300. Thus 302 is a shade above average. In my opinion it would not, by itself, gain you entry to a good school for a Master's in CS. Sorry!  But are you not rather late for admission in the Fall of 2015? Best wishes.On another point which applies to many QUORA questions, see below on the confidentiality of GRE scores. All GRE score users should be aware of the confidential nature of the scores and agree to maintain their confidentiality. Institutional policies should be developed to ensure that confidentiality is maintained. For example, GRE scores should not be placed on documents sent outside the institution.







Have put the GRE scores of different students who recently got admitted in USA universities who has less than 315 GRE scores, Reference was taken from going through the interviews of current students from ConnectBud BlogWebsite: ConnectBud(Dedicated to help ONE Million Students by 2020!)Wilmington University: 287Oakland University, Michigan: 290California State University, Sacramento:293California State University, Long Beach:293Illinois State University, Chicago:293Texas A&M University, Corpus Christi:293Texas A&M University, Kingsville:293Texas University, San Marcos: 298University of Houston, California State University, University of Tampa, University of Florida,New Jersey Institute of Technology:300







For most of the universities, there is no cut off for GRE. The admissions committee will consider both GRE and GPA for granting admission. It depends from university to university. Some universities consider GPA score and some universities consider GRE and have cutoff scores. GPA determines how good you are in your academics in your bachelor degree. GRE scores determine your verbal, quantitative and Analytical skills.Admission of a student to the university doesn’t depend on GRE along, but also an effective statement of purpose also adds value for considering admission criteria.Most of the universities don’t look at the overall GRE score but they consider individual scores.How good GRE score of 302 depends on two aspects. What kind of GRE score your program wants. Each program in the university has different requirement of GRE scores.It also considers what individual percentile you have scored on verbal and quantitative.When we take percentile into consideration, it tells what percentage of the test takers score below your score on the individual section. If you have higher percentile you will have more competition and chances of getting considered for admissions. This percentile is considered when you are taking a particular program. You should score higher in a particular GRE section that is related to your program. Individual portions of GRE are scored between 130 - 170. If you have GRE score of 302, you can individual scores as (Verbal: 150, Quantitative: 152 or Verbal: 152, Quantitative: 150, Verbal: 151, Quantitative: 151, Verbal: 148, Quantitative: 154 etc.)If you have a GRE score of 302, you can get admission into some good universities.Northwest Missouri State UniversityWright State UniversityAuburn UniversityMontana State University – BillingWest Virginia State UniversityState University of New York – AlbanyUniversity of CincinnatiArkansas State UniversityCalifornia State University, Riverside Ext & ESLMontana State University – BozemanUniversity of Nevada-RenoUniversity of Houston-Clear LakeNorthwest Missouri State UniversityGrand Valley State UniversityKent State UniversityUniversity of Arkansas at Little RockUniversity of Colorado DenverUniversity of New HavenUniversity of Central MissouriUniversity of North FloridaUniversity of Michigan FlintUniversity of St. ThomasKansas State UniversityUniversity of North DakotaNorthwestern UniversityGeorgia Institute of TechnologyUniversity of Texas AustinUniversity of Maryland- College ParkTexas A&M UniversityUniversity of Michigan, Ann ArborNorthern Illinois UniversityOklahoma City UniversityNorthern Kentucky UniversityUniversity of Texas, ArlingtonStony Brook UniversityFor more universities that accept GRE score of 302, you can find here.Hope you find this useful.







A Score above 325 can get you into Excellent universities. 315 - 325 will get admission from above average US Universities. 300-315 Score for Average Universities. Most of the universities don't mention the GRE Cut off scores except a few. Check university websites for information. Having above Cut off limit won't guarantee admission.Follow the below table to know the universities suitable for your GRE Profile.Revised GRE Universities for GRE > 300US Universities for GRE Score Range 301, 302, 303, 304, 305, 306, 307, 308Texas Tech University www.ttu.edu, Wayne State University www.wayne.edu, California State University, Sacramento www.csus.edu, Missouri State University www.missouristate.edu, New Mexico State University www.nmsu.edu, North Dakota State University www.ndsu.edu, University of Texas-Arlington www.uta.edu, Clarkson University www.clarkson.edu, Wright State University www.wright.edu, University of Tennessee Chattanooga www.utc.edu, University of Tulsa www.utulsa.edu, Portland state university www.pdx.edu, University of Vermont www.uvm.edu Baylor University, Texas www.baylor.edu Villanova University www.villanova.edu University of Tampa www.utampa.edu Louisiana Tech. University www.latech.edu New Jersey Institute of Technology www.njit.edu Idaho State University www.isu.edu Wichita State University www.wichita.edu University of Mississippi www.olemiss.edu Northeastern University www.northeastern.edu Southern Illinois University-Edwardsville www.siue.edu University of Alaska- Fairbanks www.uaf.edu Pace University, NY www.pace.edu Wright State University www.wright.edu Chicago State University www.csu.edu South Dakota State University www.sdsu.edu East Carolina University www.ecu.edu University of North Texas www.unt.edu SUNY Institute of Technology www.sunyit.edu University of Missouri at St Louis www.umsl.eduUniversity of Northern Iowa www.uni.edu University of Toledo www.utoledo.edu University of Illinois at Springfield www.uis.eduOld Dominion University, Virginia www.odu.edu THE LIST GOES ON AND ON. REF:http://www.msinus.com/content/gr...







When is the right time ?One Year Plan for Fall Semester:You will have to start Information Research and Pre application (before giving GRE) to the universities that allow this process. After March you can prepare yourself for GRE and give the exam. Do not worry if you don’t get your desired marks. You can take the test once every 21 days, up to five times within any continuous rolling 12-month period (365 days). This applies even if you canceled your scores on a test taken previously. You may take the paper-delivered test as often as it is offered. You have time till September. After September you will have to start getting your application documentation (SOP, Transcripts, Letter of recommendation, Resumes, Financial Documents) ready as it may take a while in few cases to gather it all. You can start applying now to your desired colleges and application deadlines will be in November. In next few months the Admission decisions will be announced, after which you can start your VISA application June and Course will be starting in September.







The time to start preparing varies for different people. Some are more competent and need less than a month to ace while others struggle even after a year of preparation.My advice, if you are in the second category(like me) : Start preparing 2–3 months before giving the exam. You should typically give GRE one year before applying. So, that makes 1 year and 3 months before the term you are applying for. Having said that, you can never start too early.. So start right now and give yourself some more preparation time.Start by giving a diagnostic test and evaluating yourself. Then go and buy some useful books like GRE Official guide, Manhattan 5lb Book, etc.Work on word lists : Memrise - Learn something new every day is a website that provides words with special lists for GRE and you can remember them on a longer run. Learn as many words as you can while simultaneously reading from The Atlantic Breaking News, World News & Multimedia, etc., It is important you read because the reading comprehension questions have a similar structure to what is there in these websites.Practice as many math problems as possible. Work on quant, do not take it lightly and if you get it wrong, try to find out what is the right solution and how it is arrived at.Give as many Mock tests as you can. There are plenty of resources for mock tests - Kaplan, Manhattan Test Prep, Magoosh, Princeton Review and many more. Not to forget the official mock tests - ETS PowerPrep II.Whether you choose to go for coaching or not is upto you but if you work hard you’ll ace the test whether or not you go.All the best!







Thanks for the A2A!It really depends on what score you’re targeting and where you currently stand in terms of prepared-ness. I would suggest taking a diagnostic test first, for this reason. Gathering where your strengths and weaknesses lie will enable you to plan more efficiently. Here is a link to a free online diagnostic test- http://bit.ly/2z92K3C.Once you’re done with that and have a better idea of what needs working on, you can start to plan your prep. Some people require three months, others find they can manage in 45 days. There is no one-size-fits-all time period for which you should prepare.Assuming you have a math background, the Quant section should be easier for you to tackle. That does not mean you do not have to practice or that you can slack off- it simply means you should be able to devote more time to your Verbal prep.Set aside a certain amount of time a day to practice and reintroduce yourself to the Quant concepts you already know. Of course, if there are topics you struggle with, you’ll want to do a deep dive and re-learn these concepts.Take practice tests for every new topic you cover- this is key. For free GRE practice questions with explanations, there’s a great free, GRE app available. The Ultimate GRE prep app. Use this to get started.For verbal, the first thing you need to do is read. Learn the meanings of words. If reading isn’t something you’re comfortable with, start with learning words.There are apps you can use for this, the one I usually recommend is the Ultimate Vocabulary Prep app. Its fun and efficient. Set aside goals for the number of words you should learn in a day, it helps to stay on track.Once you’ve understood the meaning of the word, make sure to familiarize yourself with the word. Use the word in sentences, get a feel for how the word fits into different contexts. Remember, the GRE is not a test of how many words you know. Its a test of your analytical ability so you need to know how the words you’re learning fit into different contexts.Read articles from the Atlantic, The New York Times, the Hindu- the more varied the subject of the articles, the better.The most important thing to keep in mind when preparing for the GRE is that you track your progress. Note where you’re making mistakes and work on those areas. Time your performance, you’ll find that time management is an essential skill to have when it comes to the GRE.The three main things I would say needed to prep for the GRE are:quality study materialconstant tracking of your progresstest-taking skills i.e. time-management skillsThe first is easier to find than the last two. GRE prep app- http://bit.ly/2Bcc48KVocab app- http://bit.ly/2COmzzsI hope this helps!Good luck!







Atleast 6 month before your GRE Exam you should start your preparation ..Basic Tips to Prepare for GRE and Test Papers:Make a strategy and follow it  religiously to study regularly for each section. Every section of GRE is  unique, thus require diverse preparation.Be thorough with analytical writing.  This section measures candidates’ focus, intelligence for discussion and  their ability to put forth complex ideas with suitable examples. To  gain mastery over analytical skills, read a lot especially articles on  diverse topics and try to analyze them with varied perspectives.Keep your knowledge bank updated. Be  aware of national and international important happenings and events.  Read regular national dailies and magazines that contain information of  latest occurrences of the world. Follow televisions and internet for the  same.Practice for quantitative reasoning.  This section evaluates candidates’ skills to study and interpret the  quantitative issues and how they can use their mathematical skills to  solve them. Subjects like geometry, algebra, arithmetic, probability and  statistics are included. Practice and clarity of concepts can make you  score higher.Get complete hold of verbal reasoning  section by prior practice. This section examines the ability of the  aspirants to comprehend what they have read and how they draw and  investigate conclusions out of it. Read as much as you can English  language materials. Also analyze and write as much as you can.To prepare for GRE select the  preparation books with care. The books should cover all relevant topics  of each and every section of the exam. You can also download study  material from government’s GRE website. Downloading software like  POWERPREP II would be of great help to get acquainted with the tests in  terms of time, questions test design, on-screen calculator and testing  software.Before starting the exam read the questions carefully, understand what answer is required and then start answering.







A typically recommended timeline to start GRE preps is around 3 months before your registered exam date. But it varies depending how good you already are in the areas that ETS tests in the GRE.How to find out how good you already are?Write mock tests. There are many websites which offer free mock tests (eg. GREgde, ManhattenPrep, GRE). These mock tests will give you an idea of what you would score if you were to appear for GRE unprepared. If you score between 300–310 (of course mock tests won't grade your essay), 2–3 hrs daily for 3 months should be more than enough. If you score less, you need to give more time (maybe 3–4 hrs daily for 3 months).But the most important thing is how much time you have. For instance, I had to prepare while I was working. I studied 1–3 hrs daily for 3 months and scored 323 (V158 Q165 AWA 3.5). Whereas one of my batchmates had decided for an MS in the 3rd year of engineering so he had time and he prepared for about 9–12 months. He scored 332, which is a pretty good score.So essentially here's what you should do -Decide where you stand right now and how much time you have for the applications and how much of it can you dedicate for the prep on a daily/weekly basis.Register for the exam accordingly (yes, register an exam date beforehand - costs around $200-$230), and start preparing.Remember this - your GRE score is one of the important factors to get into a good college, so give it it's due importance. Neither less nor more (than required).Hope that helps.







Every person is different. The right time to take the GRE is when it is right for YOU Consider the relevant factors that will affect when you will take the test, and plan from there. For most people who are still in college, the best time to take the GRE is sometime between the spring semester of their 1st year and the fall semester of their Final year. At the very least, make sure that you give yourself adequate time to prepare for the test (at least a couple of months) and plan for the possibility that you may want to retake it if things don’t go perfectly.Below I have mentioned the pattern and some simple strategies that can help you for your preparation;PATTERN (VERBAL, QUANTITATIVE and AWA)VerbalGRE (Reading Comprehension, Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence)Further for GRE, kindly note that for Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence, one needs to have a very good knowledge on the vocabulary and its usage as well. It is not the knowledge of word list alone but its application too is very important.Please Note that the difficulty level for Verbal in GRE is Very Difficult.QuantitativeAlgebraArithmeticGeometryMiscellaneous (Permutation, Combinations, Counting & Probability and Coordinate Geometry)Data Interpretation (Includes Statistics as well)Please Note that GRE Quant is basic 10th standard maths and much much easier. So kindly brush up your basics.Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)In AWA, GRE students are tested on“Analyze an Issue” [30 mins] in which they have to discuss their opinions/give their ideas on the topic“Analyze an Argument” [30 mins] wherein they are expected to identify the Flaws).IMPORTANT INFORMATIONGRE scores are valid for 5 years AND is a Standardized Test. Since GRE test is standardized, the questions are predictable.Simple strategies but could prove to be very effective:Please follow 20 mins strategy. Prepare seriously for 20 mins and then give a small break. Break depends as you can take a 1 min break to an hour. It solely boils down to you. With this strategy, even if you prepare for 10 times a day (10 x 20 mins = 200 mins = 3hrs 20 mins); then you would be able to put in 3hrs and 20 mins of valuable effort. More importantly, you will not have any starting problem as some students struggle to even start.Further, keep yourself fit by doing meditation, yoga and exercises like walking, running etc to keep yourself fit. Staying fit helps you in enhancing the body & mind and in turn helps in increasing the concentration level.Have a clear goal for your preparation. Work everyday with a plan. Systematic and consistent preparation helps you a lot. More importantly, learn it with passion. If you learn with passion, then you can enjoy studying and not creating self inflicted unwanted stress.Clear Plan and GoalI come across students at times who say that they want to do this and that and so on. Have a clear plan, stick onto your goal and learn with passion. You can then achieve what you want.Self Study or Joining Online/Classroom CoachingOne always has an option to go in for self study. But that requires a high level of self motivation, sheer hard work and lots of time to understand the concepts.In turn, if you join coaching institute, it really helps you as you get to learn from the expert faculty in respective areas and it helps you to save a lot of time, as understanding concepts can take time. Further, you tend to learn tips, strategies and short cuts from the faculties.Further for preparation, student can choose online coaching. But then, the rigor of online and classroom coaching definitely differs. Coaching institutes play an important role in imparting strategies and giving a systematic structure to the student.Other than this, student should be sincere to classes and must put the best effort as their is no substitute for hard work.Factors to be Considered for Classroom CoachingIf someone has to choose coaching institute, then the factors to be considered are1) Faculty profiles (that also include qualifications) [In my opinion, that's one of the most important factor],2) Small class size i.e Faculty : Student Ratio (Even this is a very important factor)3) Materials,4) Online Test SeriesOnline test series, personal guidance from expert faculty etc will be missing if you were to prepare on your own.Take Mock TestsFurther, take lots of Mock Tests (after your preparation) and do a lot of self analysis after each and every test. Through this, you would be able to analyze your strengths and weakness. More importantly, you will not repeat the same mistakes again.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.VijayAlumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT







Byju’s is the leading app based study provider. They uphold the mark of self-learning with the fusion of technological advancements. Byju’s GRE test prep course is developed focussing the needs of the students and working professionals who possess a will to study abroad and enhance the career graph. Byju’s GRE prep has been divided into three steps and contain the following features:For Beginners: The beginners signify the group of students or freshers who want to start prepping for GRE right after their graduation or in the initials of their employment. Byju’s offers the distinct study material for beginners which includes:(i) Comprehensive lectures in a guided format to give you end-to-end guidance(ii) High quality webinar classes by the international test expert PN Santosh who is a 338 scorer in GRE.(iii) Class room teaching facility is offered to the college students by the talented faculties. The aim of the classes is to identify the weak nerves of the aspirants, resolve the query and guide them to secure a good score of 320+ in GRE test.For Intermediaries: The intermediaries defines the group of those aspirants who initiated the preparation but got stuck in amid. For those Byju’s offers the distinct study material which includes:(i) An adaptive question bank with analysis to help you narrow down your GRE preparation.(ii) Focus only on your shaky areas and build your level up from there by revisiting lectures in those areas.(iii) Experience the unique Diagnostic Tool Kit(DTK), a software that analyses your performance, gives you feedback and suggests the remedial steps to be taken to rectify the flaws.For Seasoned Students: This refers to those aspirants who are ready to attempt the test, yet they have some areas of doubts which are needed to be resolved. Byju’s caters the query of the aspirants by providing:(i) A Library of 1000+ practice questions entirely based on the GRE exam pattern.(ii) Complete analysis of your weak areas and detailed feedback explaining the reason behind the committed mistakes.(iii) Take help of the test Analyzer to get accustomed with the GRE exam pattern and score.Before selecting the test prep guides, download the Byju’s learning App and watch the videos or sign-up for the 7-days course trial.







If you are looking for online coaching, I would suggest you to take Magoosh as its level matches with GRE. No one has ever complained that Magoosh is not worth the money. Byju’s is a good option but I would you suggest you to go for Magoosh.If you just want to start your preparation, watch videos on topNotch tutorials channel on youtube. They have most basic concepts of quants covered in their channel.Here is the link of their first video:After watching this series, I would suggest you to start with Magoosh subscription and words. And then Manhattan 5lb book for quants.All the best for your preparation!







For me Quant Section was not a problem. The real obstacle was to ace the Verbal Section. And I feel BYJUS helped me get a score of 329 (Q:170, V:159) in GRE.I was impressed by the specific techniques they have developed for confronting every type of question in Verbal Section. They claim they have come up with those techniques & formulas based on a lot of research on the past few years of GRE questions.I only went through the Verbal material, not so much for Quant, so here is my experience of the material provided.BYJUS provide video tutorials for each & every type of question one can face in the Verbal Section. They have divided the set of verbal questions in the GRE syllabus into different categories and subcategories. They first teach how to identify the category & more importantly the subcategory of a question. Next they teach how to approach each of those subcategories. After certain set of videos have passed, there are some practice questions and there is a solution with complete analysis for each and every question.After all the tutorials, there are time based tests (all difficulty levels) for each category. You will also find complete verbal tests which imitate the format found in GRE tests. In total there are enough questions for your practice. And each question comes with a solution which is inline with their theory.Initially its not easy to solve questions and that too in time, using their technique. But after enough practice I think their method is extremely effective in obtaining good verbal scores.They also provide access to Membean Software, which I think is a great resource for expanding your vocabulary, not just for GRE but also for daily life. I found it to be very addictive and effective in building my vocabulary.Its important to note that first you should build a decent level of vocabulary before attempting the Text Completion & Sentence Equivalence questions of the verbal section.Depending on one’s initial level in the verbal section, one may take anything between a month and six months to prepare properly for GRE. But it would be best to have at least 2 to 3 months in your bag if going with BYJUS.So, if you are just starting to prepare for the first time to crack GRE and have ample time with you, then I would strongly recommend going with BYJUS. But if you are looking to get some fast track course to practice for a month or so towards GRE, then I wouldn’t recommend BYJUS.







You can know it yourself. Byjus is the only one that provides a free trial for their content.Download Byjus - The Learning App on your smartphone and explore the content for free. You’d know the content is unique and in high quality that teaches you short cut techniques to solve the questions in very less time.Byjus is a perfect blend of online classes, conventional classes and one on one learning process which changes the way you approach to solve a test.Byjus Tablet Course which offers your many assistance, just like a free mentorship that lends a personalized session on your demand, a study plan according to your learning capabilities and schedule and also a review session over a period of time.Other than conventional methods of learning, it can be used according to your own convenience even if you’re at office, school or travelling to somewhere.For GRE Prep, you can improve vocabulary for GRE test with a special VOCAB tool. It also claims to help you solve tough verbal question in just 60 seconds. Also, it aids you with a Diagnostic Toolkit: which gives you complete analytics of your daily progress and performance.The best thing about Byjus is, we offer you a fair chance to make your choice. Just order a trial pack with course content for a free trial. Also, if you will not be satisfied with the Tablet Course we offer you a full refund for the same.I’d suggest you not to go by my words but explore it yourself, watch the videos online or download the app.Happy Learning :)







I don't have any personal experience with BYJU. Just try any free videos you have acess to regarding to GRE syllabus.If you are able to comprehend what they are teaching and able to solve the questions in least possible time, you may opt for a paid training.However, online coaching has its own advantages and disadvantages.Advantages:Experienced staff,Proven courses by trained content developers,Users reviews and ratings,One-to-one interaction andPersonal attention.Disadvantages:One needs to be tech savvy,Requires laptop/desktop and good internet connection,No competition with other batch mates,Physical presence of teacher brings best in you by constant monitoring and understanding your way of solving problems.







Try an understand what Byju does.They produce some videos using their Subject Matter Experts. These videos are bundled in a Tablet. These tablets are sold to Students at a Premium Cost by their Sales People.Here are some Pros & Cons related to Learning via Videos, that I answered previously.I would like to introduce you to a new & upcoming way of Learning in India. Online Coaching . It is widely popular in USA & UK.In an Online Coaching, Teacher & Student connect via an Online Classroom. Online Classroom uses Video Conferencing Technology.There is a Whiteboard where both Tutors & Students can writeBoth Tutor & Student stream LIVE VideosBoth Tutor & Student stream LIVE AudioThey can Chat with each otherHere is how an Online Classroom works:-This is a new form on Online Education coming up in India. If you are interested, check TutStuHere are some of the Benefits that TutStu offers to Students:-Here is a list of GRE Tutors displayed as per their Global Rankings







The BasicsFirst off, let me assume you haven't completed an Engineering degree in a First-World Anglophone country, because a lot of my advice probably wouldn't apply to you then. I also don't think you'd have any problems scoring 330 as easy as pie because of the way you've been educated, so this post won't apply to you then. If you haven't however, a score of 330+ on the GRE signifies one of two things: You're either exceptionally well-rounded in both the Verbal and the Quantitative aspects of your education, meaning you won't lose more than 10 points aggregate in all your sections combined. There's a few people I know who're this way despite their Third-World upbringing. Hats off to them.Or, as I was, you're talented enough to score 170/170 on only one of your sections, and you've prepared well enough and done what's required on test-day not to lose more than 10 points on your other section. This was me. I knew I would get 169-170 on my Quants all along, it was all about damage limitation on GRE Verbal (which I wasn't very good at) and making sure I didn't squander more than ten points on test day. I succeeded, but not without some serious doubts along the way.So the objective is clear. You've got to avoid losing more than 10 points on test-day, Verbal and Quants combined. Let me talk about how I managed to accomplish that feat and how you can do the same.GRE VerbalFor me, Verbal was far and away the most difficult of all three GRE Sections, simply because of the limitations in my vocabulary and the types of questions that I encountered when I practiced for the GRE. If you're in the same boat, you'll fully understand how preparing for GRE Verbal can sometimes fill you with doubt and depression, because you've simply got no idea about what the right answer choice could be. The way I see it, the most crucial aspect to mastering GRE Verbal is not how much time you spend preparing. It hasn't even got much to do with how many words you know.The most crucial skill on GRE Verbal is Context.What does that mean? Basically, you need to know how the different words in English you're already familiar with can be used in differing contexts to provide alternate meanings. This is how you should inculcate context into your GRE Preparation:First things first. Buy a complete prep book for GRE Verbal. I chose Kaplan GRE Premier, but only because that was the book somebody else recommended to me. Barron's and ETS are more than good enough as well.Go through all the question types, tips and practice questions provided in at least one of these books. Doing so will ingrain the format of the question paper and the probable words you're likely to come across on the day of the test itself. If you make a mistake in answering a question, write that down in a separate booklet, understand why you made that mistake (unknown word, wrong context etc.) and make sure it doesn't happen again.I would also recommend going through all the resources available on the Magoosh website (https://gre.magoosh.com/) as well as the apps they've got for GRE Verbal, available for smartphones. They really helped brush up my vocabulary.I've also covered GRE Verbal Preparation in more detail here:What can I do to improve my verbal score in the GRE from 153 to 160+?GRE QuantsI didn't need to spend a lot of time preparing for the Quantitative Section of the GRE, partly because it was just 10th Grade Math, and partly because I knew I had more pressing issues to deal with a.k.a Verbal. But if you feel like you need to do better in Quant, there's really no substitute for practice. The books that I've mentioned previously have all got chapters devoted to GRE Quants as well, so getting questions to practice with shouldn't be a problem. Work on the mathematical concepts that you'll need for the test, improve your time management skills, and you'll be fine.Analytical WritingAgain, AWA wasn't especially relevant to my GRE Preparation since I'm going to be applying for an MS in an Engineering discipline, so anything above 4.0/6.0 was fine by me. There are two kinds of essays you'll have to write on test-day, 30 minutes each, with slightly different writing styles. The best way to improve your essay writing skills is to read the sample essays that're given in your prep books, and practice using similar words when you write your own pieces. This goes without saying, but please make sure your essays are devoid of any grammatical/spelling mistakes, as those kinds of errors tend to be looked upon very poorly. Lastly, here's an here's an extensive guide written by the lads over at CrunchPrep on scoring 330+ on your GRE.Hope this helps :)







GRE is not a test of your intelligence. It's more about how well you are able to hack the exam pattern and temperament.To go from 320 or 325 to 330/330+ makes all the difference and every point needs to be earned.Verbal: Assuming most people appearing for GRE from India are engineers or atleast from STEM background, Verbal gives nightmares to everyone. Blame it on our schools who taught us to mug up answers in English.Vocab: Don't be lazy about Vocab! It pays rich dividends. Good vocab prep means Sentence Equivalence and Text Completions part done so 8/20 questions taken care of. It helps tremendously in improving AWA quality, understanding RCs and TOEFL writing too. Start slowly and build up from there. Start with 333 High frequency word list, then move on to 800 word list, then 2000 and so on. 10 days prior to GRE focus on 800 word list. It helps the most. (If you are preparing for GRE under severe time constraints, Barron’s800 word list is your saviour). 90% of words on my GRE were from list and I was able to solve all questions by process of elimination because I knew all options or all but one in worst case scenario. There are several apps& websites available like : Magoosh Flashcards, Quizlet, Memrise etc. They have different formats. Pick what suits you the best. My personal favourite was Memrise because reviewing words already learnt is as important if not more as compared to learning new words. Set short targets such learning 20 new words.Reading Comprehensions: pace yourself well while reading. First reading should be mostly skimming through the text. If you don't understand something don't fret. You don't need to understand the whole passage to crack it. Don't trust instincts/gut feeling/memory either. Read every option and verify with relevant parts of passage. (Paraphrasing may help if you are really quick at reading). GRE tries to trick you by twisting/omitting/adding usually a word in the options which isn't in the passage. Thumbrule: eliminate any negative/out of context/ controversial options. More the practice and mock tests, better will be your RCs part.Quant:Manhattan 5 pound is a great book to start off and tackle questions of varying difficulty. Note: Don't skip Advance Quant part. Due to adaptive nature of tests you may get difficult questions in 2nd quant so it's a good idea to get used to it.How to avoid silly mistakes? By accepting them. Whenever I made a mistake in a mock test, instead of classifying under the broad banner of silly mistakes, I would write it down. Example “I calculated % instead of %change” etc.Utilise all 35 mins. Recheck every answer, using substitution or something. It really helps to eliminate silly mistakes.AWA: Usually we just have to clear a cut off for AWA.Read sample essays initially.Practice writing under timed conditions so you know how to manage those 30 mins.Leave 4–5 mins at end for proofreading twice. We tend to ignore spelling mistakes during first reading.General:Practice a lot of mocks with timed conditions so you are accustomed to various exam formats (number and sequence of verbal and quant sections)Keep a track of progress and keep reviewing mistakes.GRE is a test of temperament. Practice sitting in a chair in front of a computer and keeping your brain in full concentration mode for 4 hours at a stretch!Cheers! All the best!







Here’s how I scored 330+ with a 3 week preparation plan!It is important to understand that the GRE is very different as compared to the other exams we are used to giving, talking from an Indian’s perspective. Blind hard work will not serve any purpose and sometimes will be counterproductive.ETS (the company that conducts the GRE) wants to convince you that your score is a measure of how good you are at ‘critical thinking’, but in reality it is only a measure of how good you are at giving the GRE. So, fortunately for us, the more you practise in the correct way, the better you become at giving the GRE.The Correct Way (in my experience) :Quality > Quantity. Always. Please do not spend 10+ hours a day mechanically solving problems and forgetting about them as you move forward. This will cause you to plateau at a certain skill level. The key is small incremental improvements.For me, the ideal way was a simple 3 step process :1.	Solve problems in small sets, around 20(+5 || -5) questions per set.2.	Check your answers. See the solutions, understand them thoroughly.3.	After checking all, recap the questions you got wrong, why, and what you learnt from them. This is extremely important.Let’s jump into the schedule now, shall we?Pre-prep phase (1 week) :Okay, I lied, it’s not really 3 weeks, but this pre-prep phase won’t take more than two hours of your time per day, and what’s more, you can easily do this while you eat or just before sleeping.What is to be done? Words, Words and more Words.Spend this week learning the words from the following apps :1.	Barron’s 11002.	Magoosh Flash Cards (around 1000 words)3.	Manhattan Essential Words (around 500 words)Vocabulary is essential to understanding the Reading Comprehensions as well as the sentence completions, so please complete this before moving ahead!Week 1 :Congratulations! The boring part is done. This week, let’s do :1.	4 Practice Tests2.	Practise each type of question in isolation. For example, do 20 Text Completions in one set. This will help you to identify weaknesses to work on.3.	Brush up all the shortcuts and maths formulae that you encounter.(Online Magoosh article exists)Week 2 :This week, let’s move forward with :1.	6 Practice Tests.2.	Do mixed practice sets now (All types of problems together), to simulate the actual GRE scenario.3.	Strictly time your tests and practice sets. Keep 5 minutes per section as a buffer. Identify which type of questions you are slow at. Work on them.Week 3 :Buckle up, this is your final lap :1.	8 practice tests.2.	Start reading AWA essays online, as well as general structuring tips. A lot of video material is available online. Practise a few essays if necessary.3.	Revise the Vocabulary words and mathematical formulae.At the end of this schedule, you should be ready to face the GRE. So be confident, sleep well before the paper and ohh, don’t forget to carry a jacket. It’s freezing in there.Thanks for reading! Please do upvote if this helped you.







After  making up your mind for masters degree abroad, the next thing to do to  make your dream come true, is to prepare for GRE. Unless and until you  are an expert in quantitative methods and English verbal skills, you  need GRE practice and preparation to excel the exam with flying colors.  Practice makes you comfortable and known to the exam pattern and course.  It is necessary for all, but compulsorily important to students those  native speaking language is not English.Although the test papers maybe an easy  task for students who have done enough practice, but not first time  attempts directly at the exam time it could be taxing! GRE undergoes  changes in its question papers every year which makes it highly  competitive and a challenge to score higher. There is a huge competition  among thousands of students who appear for GRE test papers. Hence it is utmost important to be well-prepared.GRE (Graduate Record Examination) scores  are required by graduate schools of English speaking countries like  Australia, UK, US and others for giving admission to international  students in various academic graduate level programs. This test  evaluates skills of the students on the basis of three sections:  1. Analytical writing  2. Verbal reasoning  3. Quantitative reasoningIn computer-based test format ‘unscored’ and ‘research’ sections are also included; the scores are not shown on the test.Basic Tips to Prepare for GRE and Test Papers:Make a strategy and follow it  religiously to study regularly for each section. Every section of GRE is  unique, thus require diverse preparation.Be thorough with analytical writing.  This section measures candidates’ focus, intelligence for discussion and  their ability to put forth complex ideas with suitable examples. To  gain mastery over analytical skills, read a lot especially articles on  diverse topics and try to analyze them with varied perspectives.Keep your knowledge bank updated. Be  aware of national and international important happenings and events.  Read regular national dailies and magazines that contain information of  latest occurrences of the world. Follow televisions and internet for the  same.Practice for quantitative reasoning.  This section evaluates candidates’ skills to study and interpret the  quantitative issues and how they can use their mathematical skills to  solve them. Subjects like geometry, algebra, arithmetic, probability and  statistics are included. Practice and clarity of concepts can make you  score higher.Get complete hold of verbal reasoning  section by prior practice. This section examines the ability of the  aspirants to comprehend what they have read and how they draw and  investigate conclusions out of it. Read as much as you can English  language materials. Also analyze and write as much as you can.To prepare for GRE select the  preparation books with care. The books should cover all relevant topics  of each and every section of the exam. You can also download study  material from government’s GRE website. Downloading software like  POWERPREP II would be of great help to get acquainted with the tests in  terms of time, questions test design, on-screen calculator and testing  software.Before starting the exam read the questions carefully, understand what answer is required and then start answering.







ure-Shot success planGRE verbal is not like GRE Quant. Unlike GRE Quant, you need to give yourself as much time as possible to acquire the required reading skills.Resources Required• Access to reading resources mentioned above• GRE Official Guide• Subscription to Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• A notebook (Yes, you will need it)• Some sticky notesThe plan• Read an article every day from the opinion pages from the above mentioned resources• Focus on the usage of support signals, contrast signals, causal signals, concession signal and expounding signals• Make a list of all the signals you encounter and make notes on their usages• Make logical predictions whenever you encounter these signals and read further to check if you were correct• Make a note of all the words you encounter and learn their meanings as used in the context• Write down the words (just the words) on sticky notes and stick them in your study area. These notes should remain posted till the time you are done with your GRE. When you see these words every day you recall the words and your familiarity with these words increases• After you are almost 15 days through, start taking small Text Completion tests available on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes• Once you feel that you are make good enough progress with the understanding of the text, you are in a position to take some Reading Comprehension practice tests on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes. Make a note of the same. Do not commit the same errors• You must be taking a Reading Comprehension and Text Completion test every day. You must have developed ample reading skills by the end of 45 days• Your vocabulary must have also strengthened by now• Start practicing some Sentence Equivalence questions on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Review your tests and understand your mistakes. Make a note of the same. Do not commit the same errors• You have done all the above and you have almost completed 60 days of your prep• Now try your hand on the official content. Go through the Official Guide and finish all the practice questions• Try those questions once again which you got wrong in the first attempt• Note down all the words that you are not familiar with• Keep working on all the words that you encounter in the Official Guide as these are the words that you will find on the GRE• Take all GRE Verbal Sectional Tests available on Online Exam Prep & e-Tutoring Services, Online Tests, Study Material & TCY Analytics• Take necessary corrective actions and practice those areas where you are unable to scoreFollow this process religiously and give yourself almost 3 months; you will see that you are developing your skills and the most convoluted questions appear very easy.Subscribe to any of our convenient subscriptions plans to unleash the true power of GRE Prep.Remember, we here at TCY are committed to your success.







I got 336 on my GRE within 20 days, (V166 Q170) and I can talk about how I got it here. I started at around 320 from my first mock test, and obviously GRE preparation should usually depend on the individuals, to be more specific, their backgrounds, their goals, and sometimes their time budget, but generally, it consists of the following phases. I’ll focus less on selecting books and softwares and instead talk more on general strategy and time allocation:1.Self-assessment & Planning (1–2 weeks): Make a target score based on your grad school goals. Then take a few diagnostic tests to see where you’re at. Identify areas you need to work on: vocabulary, reading, or certain math areas you’ve already forgotten about, and based on your goal and current level, you can figure out how much time you need to work on improvement.2. Practice & Improvement (2–10+ weeks): It really depends on your schedule. Most people I know spend 1–3 months studying for GRE, and after the first phase, you now should have a better idea how much time you need to work on GRE. Now that you’ve identified areas you need work on, start working on them relentlessly and making progress. For this Phase I have generally 4 tips:Focus. The famous 80/20 Rule[1] states that roughly 80% of your outcomes come from 20% of your inputs. This applies to GRE as well. There will be areas on GRE where you can most quickly improve. When the time is limited, you need to focus on those areas to make the most progress. Take a few mock tests and find those spots, and work on them relentlessly.Make mistakes. Don’t worry about them at all. It is a good thing to find yourself making mistakes when you’re practicing than you do on the real test. When you practice, you want to expose all the possible ways you make mistakes, and then find ways to avoid them. The reality is, aside from the vocabulary, GRE hardly covers anything that esoteric. In many cases, it’s the silly mistakes you make that really keeps you from getting your dream score. Learning how to avoid those mistakes can allow you to improve quickly. You just need to identify them first, by making them.Analyze. Don’t just practice questions after questions. Think about them. Find patterns, find how you get them wrong, and find quicker ways to solve these questions. At the end of the day, it’s not the quantity of questions that you practiced on that matters the most, it’s how you treat them. Don’t just focus on getting the questions right, focus on how to get better.Consolidate. After you’ve practiced, made mistakes, and analyzed them, now it’s time to consolidate your takeaways. Make yourself a list of actions you can take during the actual test to help yourself perform better. Take a good look at them before the next time you practice, and make a final list before you take the real test to keep yourself reminded of these takeaways.Many of my friends have asked me how I got the score I have. Frankly this is it. Now I’m building Gregory to help people do these things automatically. I’d be happy to hear any thoughts/feedback on it.3. Mock Tests (1–2 Weeks): Although you have taken the diagnostic tests and have practiced for weeks by the time you enter this phase, it’s now time to get ready for the real test. Try to find the best pace for yourself, and figure out the common errors you tend to make to avoid losing points to silly mistakes. This is especially important for the math section. Before the test, put together a list of actionable items to remind you of things you tend to overlook during the real test and try to avoid them.These are my advice for any test takers, feel free to reach out or leave a comment for any questions.Footnotes[1] What Is The 80/20 Rule And Why It Will Change Your Life







I took the GRE this past November and scored 170/170 Quant and 163 / 170 Verbal and prepped for about 1.5 to 2 months. Feel free to message with me with any questions at shalini@grovenue.comMy vocabulary prep involved the following:I started by studying the flash cards by Magoosh - their app is simple, interactive and offline mode-enabled (I think). Very useful to keep revising words when you’re on the go or have a few minutes to spare.Making sure I knew the answer to words in the 5lb book by Manhattan GMAT - they also have a pretty cool online tool with the words.Reading NYT, WSJ and the Economist to understand usage of words - also helps remember words, a LOT.Creating fun mnemonics based on my personal experiences to remember words with similar (but not the same) meaning.Making a list of potential synonyms. For example, profligate and prodigal both have similar meanings and are much easier to remember when you link them in your mind.Practicing the verbal questions (especially sentence completion) for at least 1–2 hours each day. It was great practice and I discovered new words to learn this way.







The best way to memorize a GRE word list and probably the basic thing to learn is to use a word as you learn. If you are even an average guy in English vocab you don’t need to feel crestfallen by seeing the huge word lists. There are apps membean(web only) Divii English and illustrate on the playstore which will show you how to use a particular word by videos. This would help you remember the word much easily and develop your vocab as you dive deep into the word list. Because you know how to use a word completely rather than just remembering it you have minimal chances of forgetting it. To remember it for even longer time you could just make a book containing your usage of the vocab you are learning. with this you don’t need an year you could just do it in a month or two.







To have learning ability is to possess a second soul.Glad to know that you feel the importance of GRE Vocabulary. I saw many people who even did not listen the name of it. The GRE vocabulary words section can be quite tricky and hazardous but with the right preparations & practice as well you can improve your score. The verbal segment is highly reliant on GRE vocabulary and reading comprehension for the best preparations, so make sure you spend a lot of time focusing on both of skills.I would not suggest you a number of sites to prepare for GRE vocabulary words but the one and only I prefer is wifistudy. Not only for vocabulary words, the website lets you enjoy learning English vocabulary words that are necessary while gearing up for GRE vocabulary words. I consider it as the prime source for the bonzer preparation for vocabulary words for any purposes. As I’m not a supporter of the website, I will mention only three main features of the site I love most.The Three Main Features Of The Best Site For GRE VocabularyDaily Vocab: The most appreciated feature of the website is Daily Vocab. This is one and only that allows you to learn new GRE words with its synonyms and antonyms on daily basis in the form of an interesting article. Also it will let you know the tiny difference between words and phrases accordingly.GRE Vocab Quiz: It is said that, “PRACTICE MAKES A MAN PERFECT”. The line has proven via GRE vocab quiz. The more you practice on vocabulary words the more you will be dexterous at it. Take daily quiz to prepare for GRE vocabulary better than best.Video Lessons: Videos put great impact on our mind. May be having this thing in mind, the website owner has embedded the video lessons for the users. Anyways, whether it is true or not, I loved these video lessons a lot and no doubt these GRE vocabulary videos helped me to be dab-hand at GRE vocabulary.Utilizing the best website ever for GRE vocabulary, you will be able to beef up your GRE vocabulary skills. A great tactic to practice for the GRE vocabulary for verbal section is to use vocabulary rhymes in communication. By making the learning process entertaining and fun you are much more likely to live more time studying and less time worrying.







Hi there!The verbal part can be tough for some people. Fortunately, there are several free resources available on the net.I recommend you to refer to the lectures on EduSaathi's website, or their YouTube channel. It will help you greatly.







The GRE tests words that ETS (the creator of the GRE) believes the average college-educated adult should know. So, while preparing yourself for GRE you must be very concentrated as words are not very easy, but they are tricky. Some points you should keep in mind are:Go for Long Term. If you have the opportunity, spread out your vocabulary studying over a long time. ...Use Flashcards. Flash cards may sound a little old fashioned, but they are still one of the most effective ways to learn new words. ...Write Down Unfamiliar Words. ...Use the words in you daily routine.Learn Your Word Roots. ...Repeat. ...Some sites where you can go through to prepare yourself well.Vocabulary.com & study.com : These are two top sites which are now a days very famous you can easily take words from here and practice.Memrise : Through this you can get hot words for GRE from BARRONS & MANHATTAN.Daily vocab: The most appreciated feature of the website is Daily Vocab. This is one and only that allows you to learn new GRE words with its synonyms and antonyms on daily basis in the form of an interesting article.Ultimate vocabulary prep application for mobile: best way to study is nowadays is on smart phone, by this you can study whenever and wherever you like.Lecture from EduSaathi’s website: Having a YouTube channel is very good you can practice online on YouTubeVocabSmith: Another website which can be very helpful and has number of words to get perfect.. These are some important sites by which you can go through all the vocabulary . Even ultimate vocabulary app can be handy for GRE.for more contact







It worked like a gem for me. According to my knowledge 80% of the questions came from this Manhattan 5lb . I just prepared only 13 days with this book and scored 327.It’s simply an amazing book. I recommend itYou can also try these materials. If you want a good result in short term. Your preparation should be very crispy and lucid. Acheving a good score with these books is not a big task. believe me.Download link: HereI read it thoroughly, worked out every single problem, and went through their sample essays as well. I didn't look at their word lists though. I highly recommend their Quant section- It is as close to the real GRE as possible without being written by ETS themselves. Their Verbal section places more emphasis on knowing horribly obscure words, and isn't as good as the Quant section. Despite that, I would still recommend doing Short RC and RC passages from the book, and taking all the tests they have at the end of the book. Go through the TC and SE parts, but don't worry if you don't know most of the words they use.Finally For quant Manhattan 5lb book is more than equal to the actual GRE. It helps you a lot for your quant training. Just getting through that book will be enough for quant.Source- MS DEGREE IN US







To get admission into a top graduate programs in US, it's important for you to obtain Good GRE Score. This GRE score will help to candidates and University to complete the application process. Often applicants are eager to know what a good GRE score to get into a particular University/College/ Institute. The GRE score will differ depending upon the Institution you choose. Apart from University/ College, The score would be dependent upon the field you select.The GRE verbal and quantitative sections are scored on a scale of 130-170 in one-point increment in each of the two sections. You can score anywhere from 130 to 170 which means that the number of possible scores that can be obtained are limited to just 41. This range means that even a small jump in your GRE score can give a boost to your percentile ranking.Here is a list of US universities with the average GRE scores for their MS and PhD programs:Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT): Verbal: 158Quantitative: 159Writing: 5.3Stanford University: Verbal: 159Quantitative: 158Writing: 4.8University of California, Berkeley: Verbal: 153 – 156 score rangeQuantitative: 167Writing: 4.5University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA): Verbal: 155Quantitative: 167Writing: 5.0University of Virginia: Verbal: 163Quantitative: 166Writing: 4.5University of Michigan – Ann Arbor: Verbal: 160 rangeQuantitative: 167Writing: 5.0University of North Carolina – Chapel Hill: Verbal: 158Quantitative: 160Writing: 4.5Georgia Institute of Technology: Verbal: 158Quantitative: 167Writing: 4.3University of California – San Diego: Verbal: 162Quantitative: 160Writing: 5.5University of Illinois – Urbana/Champaign: Verbal: 155Quantitative: 165Writing: 4.0University of Wisconsin – Madison: Verbal: 163Quantitative: 731Writing: 4.5University of Washington: Verbal: 156Quantitative: 167Writing: 4.0Pennsylvania State University: Verbal: 150Quantitative: 165Writing: 3.0University of Florida (UFL): Verbal: 154Quantitative: 165Writing: 3.0University of Texas , Austin: Verbal: 155Quantitative: 165Writing: 4.0Ohio State University: Verbal: 156Quantitative: 165Writing: 4.0California Institute of Technology: Verbal: 160Quantitative: 157Writing: 5.0Duke University: Verbal: 160Quantitative: 160Writing: 4.5University of Chicago: Verbal: 158Quantitative: 167Writing: 4.0Northwestern University: Verbal: 160Quantitative: 160 Writing: 5.0Washington University in St. Louis: Verbal: 161Quantitative: 160Writing: 5.0Johns Hopkins University: Verbal: 163Quantitative: 164Writing: 4.8Rice University: Verbal: 160Quantitative: 167Writing: 5.0Emory University: Verbal: 153Quantitative: 306Writing: 4.0-6.0University of Notre Dame: Verbal: 165Quantitative: 165 Writing: 5.3Vanderbilt University: Verbal: 157Quantitative: 166Writing: 4.8William and Mary: Verbal: 158Quantitative: 160Writing: 4.5Johns Hopkins UniversityVerbal: 159Quantitative: 162Writing: 4.2Universirty of Texas At DallasAverage Verbal Score 150Average Quant Score: 163Rutgers UniversityAverage Verbal Score 152Average Quant Score: 162







Good GRE and TOEFL scores are necessary, but not sufficient to get into any top 10 US university. I've heard an admissions committee member of a top 10 University say this: "All Indians get high scores in GRE, and excellent recommendation letters, and well written SOPs. We don't know why, and we don't care. If the candidate's GRE score is good, and recommendation letters and SOP are good, we just ignore both of those and use other criteria. If any of those are not up to the mark, we reject the candidate."So what criteria are actually used?Preference is given to colleges in India that the selection committee members have heard of.If a student from college X with GPA/Percentage Y does well in the university, then the university starts regularly taking students with GPA greater than Y from college X. (Of course, if the student does badly, they'll increase the cutoff percentage, or worse yet, stop taking students from X.)Occasionally, they take a chance on an unheard of (for them) college, and admit someone based on a strong resume. That person pretty much holds the fate of the future students of that college in his hands.So your best bet is to apply to universities where your seniors have gone before.







First of all if you are aiming top 10 universities in United States here are a couple of links that might interest you the most throughout this hectic and exhausting process How To Get Into Stanford & Other Graduate Schools and Helping You Get Into Your Dream School (This is supposed to be authored by the famous Stanford university professor Andrew Ng) and will help you the most in the process.Coming to the question I was fortunate to attend a conference organized by Welcome to USIEF ::(United States Indian Educational Foundation) last year regarding the admissions process where delegates from around 100 universities came over to Delhi to enlighten students regarding the different disciplines at the university, the admission criteria, visa application and other supplemental stuff. I posed the following question to one of the delegates in the committee, "What criteria does a university use to normalize profiles of students who have done great at academics, Graduate Record Examination (GRE) and TOEFL but have practically no internship experience, bad projects etc against those who have scored modestly in GRE and TOEFL have secured a bearable percentage of marks and have strong internship, international and competitive flavor to their profile?". And to my delight the answer I got was a positive one, He told that university only requires a student to score the minimal GRE and TOEFL scores that renders the student eligible to apply to the university and after this initial screening is done the application is passed on to a committee of students and professors where the profile is grilled and brownie points are given for the student's outstanding achievements and then there is a weight to weight comparison of profiles between students who managed to pass the initial screening, keeping this in mind I would say try to score well in GRE but even if you don't manage very high scores don't get discouraged you must ensure that you manage a score so that you pass the initial screening phase of your application and as far as top 10 universities in States are concerned the only thing that matters is you and your achievements and most importantly the people from whom you manage to get your Letters of Recommendation, if those people are well known in their respective fields the other parts of your application might just play very little role, and if the recommendation is strong then I do believe it will be an admit in most of the cases.Conclusion : Strive hard to manage both good scores and most importantly build a good profile for which you can participate in internationally recognized events, collaborative research experience will do a world of good, and other such extracurricular activities. Best of Luck.







A graduate education is Totally different than an undergraduate education.In engineering or science (the only areas for which I am familiar) a Graduate degree is like an Apprenticeship.  One works for a professor as a researcher or as a teaching assist.  What do you offer to that professor?   TOEFL and GRE are meaningless numbers in that light.  Do you speak and write enough English to publish papers in peer reviewed journals?  That's it.  Do you have a Strong recommendation from a professor who knows you Real well?Of course, International grad students can run into Problems if they are working on engineering or science projects that are paid for by the US Government.  In that case they may Not be able to do the work, as they are not permanent residents of the USA.  Therefore, be careful of the funding source.Graduate education is All about the funding source of the professor for science or engineering.....NOTE:  If you are sponsored by your country (e.g. your Country is Paying for your graduate degree), then the doors are Wide Open.....Graduate education is all about the Money......







Getting into top universities of US is really a big challenge…GRE Scores for Top US Universities -Every school has its own set of requirements. There are U.S. universities that accept students with very low or no GRE scores, while others require scores above 330. o stop looking for the general GRE cutoff score requirements and start learning how universities accept international students.If you believe that all U.S. colleges and universities have an average GRE cutoff score, well you are very wrong. Each school may or may not disclose their minimum GRE score required for admission. The same condition applies to academic percentage, GMAT score, etc.Some universities have minimum TOEFL scores required for admission.Generally, a total of 320 or more in GRE, and at least, 161 in the quantitative section, can fetch a candidate admission in one of the top universities in the US. The GRE scores would differ depending upon the school you choose. Again, within a particular university / school, it would vary depending upon the field you select.Average TOEFL scoreEnglish proficiency is an important factor in successful admission. The students are therefore advised to work in this area for better chances of selection.Average TOEFL score required is 90 generally.. Still some top universities accept as low as 76 and some universities demands for even 100 or 100 + as well. So it totally varies from school to school and the particular course you are applying.Other than GRE and TOEFL.. Important components required to enter into top universities of USAExceptional GPA - Some universities choose to waive off the GRE score if your grade point average is above 3.4 on a scale of 0 to 4. So it pays to focus on your undergraduate degree and achieving an excellent GPA.Work Experience - Some universities waive off the GRE/GMAT if you have relevant work-experience of four years or more that is closely related to the degree that you aim to study.Strong SOP - Your SOP has the power to make or break your application. Universities treat SOP very seriously and they read your SOP. It is very important you write a good Statement of purpose interweaving your goals, your achievements, how will you achieve your goals and what do you really want to accomplish in life, etc. Statement of purpose gives the admission committee to judge your perspective of life, your career aspirations, your ethics, your technical aptitude, your vision for life, etc. The key point is, it is your chance to explain to admission committee why you are going for higher education and what is your main purpose…Universities give utmost importance to SOP.LOR - Often Universities refer to your Letters of Recommendations as a validation of what all achievements you have written about in your resume. Also, they serve as a proof positive of your work in an organization or your tenure in a college as the LORs are often requested on the official letterheads.Hope you found this article useful and informative…







Although Navin Kabra has answered it pretty well, I thought I should bring in a fresh perspective, keeping in mind the current scenario for getting admitted to MS/PhD programs at the top 10 universities (being an applicant myself). 1. There is no minimum GRE score for qualifying for admission into graduate programs. Majority of the universities refrain from advertising it on their grad-school admissions page. Some do it; case in point - Graduate Admission for Masters and Ph.D. DegreesHaving said that, if your score lies in 320 - 330 bracket, it is considered to be a "safe score" . 330+ is an exceptional score. Yet, getting such a high score doesn't guarantee you an admit. I have friends who have been rejected by the admission committee at Cornell & Stanford, with scores as high as 338 (170 in Verbal). On the other hand, some of my friends got offers from CMU at 309 and from UT, Austin at 314. Since you are stating that you are targeting top 10 universities and MIT is definitely on that list, let me bust another myth. MIT needs 330+ to even consider your application - NO (Page on mit.edu) For graduate programs at MIT, you don't even need to submit your GRE scores. So, then what score should be "sufficient", to not hinder your chances ? My response to that question would be - anything above 310 is considered a decent & acceptable score. If you have done your 10+2 schooling from India, getting 160+ in the Quant section shouldn't be very difficult. Note: That last bit is subjective opinion and I can't generalise it for other students. 2. There exist a minimum TOEFL score requirement for applicants wishing to apply to any university in the states. This score hovers around 80-90. Sometimes, its even 100 (Page on mit.edu). TOEFL comprises of 4 sections - Reading, Listening, Speaking & Writing. Of the 4, Speaking is the most relevant for the application process. This is because,for a lot of students (international students), the program cost (tuition) on an average of ($30k-$40k) + living expenses are of the order of ($10k-$20k ). To cover the expenses, students apply for TAships and in-order to teach somebody, you need to able to converse in English properly. This is judged by the Speaking section in TOEFL which ranks you on the scale of 0-30. Some universities, have a cutoff hovering around 22-25 for speaking section. This cutoff decides whether or not a candidate is eligible for TAships in the near future. So, then what should students "aim to score" in TOEFL, keeping in mind all these factors ? I would suggest, anything above 100 is sufficient with a score of 25+ in speaking section. Also, after preparing for GRE, TOEFL preparation hardly requires 1-1.5 weeks (for understanding the pattern of the exam). Again, this time-frame is subjective to change and it would be unwise to generalise it for all students.  Although Navin Kabra covered this point, yet I would like to re-iterate this point - GRE and TOEFL scores are basic eligibility criteria. Your SOP and LOR matter (A LOT MORE ) to the committee, since they are only medium for them to understand "what the applicant is really all about ?" ! Your CGPA at the UG level gives them an idea about how well you would be able to manage the coursework at their university, and hence it is necessary while reviewing any application. PS - Some points about shortlisting universities (for EE/CS major) - To get an idea about the different tier of universities present in the states, have a look at - I am a CS student wanting to get an MS at a US university. Where should I apply other than UC Berkeley, Stanford, and MIT? I heard that one should have dream target, realistic target, and backup target when applying to US universities. (Subjective to MS in CS) To get an idea about the which universities to apply for MS in Signal Processing/Communication Systems, have a look at - What are the best colleges in the US in the field of Signal Processing and Communications to get a PhD? (Subjective to MS in EE)To get an idea about which universities offer best work in VLSI CAD domain, have a look at - Pasquale Ferrara's answer to What are the best VLSI CAD research groups in US universities?







GRE has three main components namely verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning and analytical writing. Your entire preparation process should revolve around acquiring good skills on these areas and mastering the concepts required.Some of the things which you can do to get the required concept clarity areQuantitative reasoning:The best part about GRE Math is the absence of things which most of us hate in Math - The integral calculus, trigonometry and other complicated stuff. GRE Math is mostly things which you learned in junior/ high school - Things like interger properties, word problems (rate of work, speed, probability etc) which can be solved with basic common sense. Not much beyond that.What makes the GRE so tricky is the interpretation of the questions part. Once you figure out what the question is asking, the math involved is definitely easier than what you faced in your high school. In fact, it is more fun as you don't need to write down each and every step and show your teacher on how you arrived at your answer. You just need to pick an answer. In short, the math section just tests your ability to reason with numbers.Verbal reasoning:Verbal reasoning section is even more simple with there being only 3 question types - text completion, critical reasoning and reading comprehension. The preparation process should be fully focused on knowing specific strategies for cracking these questions rather than generic preparation advocated.For example, use of flash cards for learning new words was very helpful in the earlier format of the test where antonyms and analogies were asked and there was more emphasis on rote learning of words. But, the current format focuses more on understanding not only the literal meaning of the words but also the metaphorical use of the word based on the context. For example, while the word 'opaque' literally means 'not transparent', it could also mean 'difficult to interpret or understand' if used in the right context. Similarly, there are no questions asking you to identify any grammar errors. Grammar is important only for your essay writing section. Hence, it makes sense not to rely on these old fashioned methods advocated by coaching institutes but to just keep focusing on the 3 question types.Analytical writing:Analytical writing section asks you to write 2 essays - one on "The Issue" and the other on "The Argument". The major difference here is in the first essay you are asked to take a stand on a complex issue whereas in the second essay you are asked to dissect the logic behind an already taken stand or position.How do I prepare for this? You just need to follow a simple routine and you are guaranteed to score well in this section.Choose - Structure - Write - Compare - Improve - ChooseStep 1: You choose a topic where you already have some well written sample essays. You can pick these up either in the official site or from the many blogs available online.Step 2: Come up with a structure and an outline.Step 3: Write an essay by developing the structure and the outline.Step 4: Compare it with other essays written on the topic.Step 5: Rewrite your essay to improve it.Step 6: Go to Step 1.--------------------If you do all of the above, you are going to definitely score well on your GRE.Check out Magnus Prep's GRE Program if you are looking for some great mentors to help with your GRE preparation.Cheers!







When I started preparing for GRE, I realized that though I was quite comfortable with Quantitative Section,  I was a total noob at Verbal, be it vocabulary or reading comprehension. I had precisely three months to prepare. I surfed through the net and found that the New GRE was "context intensive" unlike its older version which was "vocabulary intensive". In other words, it was your "depth of knowledge" in vocabulary and not the breadth that mattered, which meant I could cut short my target vocabulary bank from 4000 to 1500 but with a caveat that I had to learn those 1500 words inside out, their usage in context of the sentence, which included not just primary, but secondary and tertiary meanings.Note: Below is the study pattern that I followed and it worked for me, but this is not the only way, you can always modify it as per your style. This is more focused on verbal section as I was fairly comfortable in the quantitative section from the beginning. I hope it proves helpful to you as well.1. First Month: ConditioningAs Norman Lewis puts it, if the Vocabulary Bank is Calcium, then extensive reading is Vitamin D. There is no point in taking more and more calcium if you don't have sufficient Vitamin D to absorb it.First Three Weeks: Work out (don't just read, work it out with pencil) "Word Power Made Easy" by Norman Lewis. It has 45 sessions. Finish 15 sessions per week, roughly 1.5-2 hours per day.In parallel, start reading one newspaper EXTENSIVELY. Read it inside out (of course there are some sections which are just not your type, you can leave out those 2-3 pages). I started reading Economic Times because I had an inclination for business news (and with all those graphs and pie charts, it inadvertently prepared me for Data Interpretation as well) Fourth Week: Time for some extra Vitamin D. Pick up one novel (preferably a motivational one) and read it voraciously, just finish it off in one week and don't forget to mark the new words that you come across while reading. Initially, it will pose some difficulty to those who are not into reading. I myself had a bitter start but a good novel will absorb you into it as you proceed. (I read The Fountainhead by Ayn Rand, it took me 12 days and yes, it really pumped me up)Meanwhile, continue with the newspaper DAILY.So, it's been one month now. Don't expect anything from yourself yet. By this time, you have a cursory vocabulary bank of 400-500 words and through extensive reading of newspaper and a novel, you have conditioned yourself for the next phase.2. Second Month: Hitting the Bull's Eye=>The typical "GRE" way Now it's time to learn some real vocabulary, for the next three weeks, don't think of anything else but vocabulary. There are three different sources for high and medium frequency words that I'm going to mention below, but the good thing is, most of the words from these word lists overlap.First Three Weeks:Sign up at Vocabulary.com. Select the Vocabulary.com Top 1000 and click on "Learn this list" which offers objective type practice questions. It's a good habit to practice these words after signing in as they keep a track of your learning curve and offer you the practice questions accordingly.Join the New GRE group on Facebook. It's the most active GRE group on Facebook right now. It will help you in two ways:Members post random GRE questions on this group, which will give you a rough idea of how the questions are going to be while you are still in the Vocabulary building phase.Secondly, it's a good source to prepare for quantitative section. As long as you are able to solve the math problems being posted over there, you can care-freely concentrate on your verbal preparation. You'll get access to some really USEFUL links.The next source of vocabulary that I referred to was 1500 Words from http://Majortests.com , shuffle between this and http://Vocabulary.com.The last but the "first" source is again, the word list at the end of "Word Power Made Easy". Meanwhile, don't forget to read the newspaper EXTENSIVELY, especially the Editorials.Now you are at a stage where you have a "faint" vocabulary word bank of 1500+ words, an extensive reading experience of a daily newspaper, a high-speed read novel and a fair idea of the level of verbal and quantitative GRE questions through Facebook group. Enough with the "Vocabulary Only" days, now it's time for some real action !!Fourth WeekTime to pick up the GRE preparations books: Now that you have enough vocabulary and reading habit in your armory, its time to use this raw material and shape it to fit the GRE examination pattern. Start with Official GRE by ETS. It will give you a clear idea of the pattern of the exam, but that's all its useful for. Don't expect it to be sufficient for practice problems. This week, just do (work out) this book, read news paper and nothing else. Also, keep a check on your performance while attempting sample problems in this book and identify your weakness: Is it RC or multiple blanks/synonyms3. Third month: Reach the top speed, end the preparation like a sprint racerFirst Two WeeksPick up Manhattan 5 lb, practice ALL the verbal exercises, don't leave a single question unanswered. Frankly speaking, once you are in momentum, these questions are not time consuming, either you know the answer, which is great, or you don't, which you can just look up in the answer key quickly. I stumbled upon the maths section of 5 lb, I liked it, it had all those problems which, though simple, are little tricky and trap you with wrong answer. I practiced quant from this book which prepared me to be ready with these kind of tricky questions. Then you can go through Kaplan GRE practice book, its a small e-book, wouldn't take much time but having finished two books will give you immense confidence and speed in problem solving. Another "thin" book that I quickly skimmed through (I'm telling you, once you are in momentum, these books will pass through in a fly) 1014 Practive Questions for the new GRE-The Princeton Review. You can also pick up books 7 and 8 from Manhattan GRE 1-8 series for RC and Sentence completion respectively.Last Two WeeksIts time to pick up what we have been letting off till now: AWA and Exam Practice Tests. For AWA, I'd read samples from Manhattan AWA. I really like the way they break down the technique to answer the AWA section, which makes it really easy to structure your thought. For more random RC practice with a timer, just visit Codecoax.com and it will pop up an RC for you. Lastly, practice as much full length exams as you can with TIMER. Practice atleast 5. For full length tests, here are some links that you can visit:20 online tests800Score's Free Full Length Revised GRE TestMyGRETutor's 4 free Full Length TestsKaplan's Free Practice Test Options for the GREPrinceton Review: Free GRE Full length testIts easy ! Its doable !! Just do it !!!Originally answered here: How to score 330+ in GRE in 3 months ?

Most of the institutions in canada asks for GRE and IELTS/TOEFL scores. But a really good GRE score doesn't insure your admission in the top tier universities. They primarily looks for a good profile overall, which includes your social awareness, extra-curricular activities, projects, work experience and last and the most important thing is your SOP and recommendation letters. your SOP is the only thing which describes you. Hence, be very descriptive about it. google out some good SOP templates you will get an idea. Preparing and applying early can give you an edge over others.Also you can take help from a professional but be aware of organizations :)Good luck, prepare hard and wish you all the best.







In Canada only the Top Ranked Universities require GRE for their MS/PhD/MBA programs. Most of the average Universities ask simply for English Language test TOEFL/IELTS.The Canadian universities are less competitive and have extreme cold weather conditions which makes them difficult to attract international students so most of them won't ask for GRE score.List of Canadian Universities without GRE Score requirementHere is the list of good universities in Canada without GRE for MS and Phd programs. SinceBrock University2. Carleton University3. Concordia University4. Kwantlen Polytechnic University5. Lakehead University6. Laurentian University7. Laval University8. Memorial University of Newfoundland9. Royal Roads University10. Trent University11. University of Lethbridge12. University of Manitoba13. University of New Brunswick14. University of Northern British Columbia15. University of Ontario Institute of Technology16. University of Prince Edward Island17. University of Regina18. University of the Fraser Valley19. University of WinnipegHere is the List of Canadian Universities accepting GRE scores for MBA courses.University NameCampusesBrock UniversitySt. CatharinesCape Breton UniversitySydney (Community Economic Development)Carleton UniversityOttawaConcordia UniversityMontrealDalhousie UniversityHalifax (MBA in Financial Services)HEC MontrealMontrealIvey Business SchoolTorontoLakehead UniversityThunder BayMcGill UniversityMontrealMcMaster UniversityHamiltonQueens University School of BusinessKingstonSt. Mary's UniversityHalifaxThompson Rivers UniversityKamloopsUniversity of AlbertaEdmontonUniversity of British ColumbiaVancouverUniversity of CalgaryCalgaryUniversity of New BrunswickFrederictonUniversity of QuebecRimouskiUniversity Canada WestVancouverUniversity of ManitobaWinnipegUniversity of New BrunswickSaint JohnUniversity of Ontario Institute of TechnologyOshawaUniversity of OttawaOttawaUniversity of TorontoTorontoUniversity of VictoriaVictoriaUniversity of Western OntarioLondonWilfrid Laurier UniversityWaterlooYork UniversityTorontoMBA Programs that Accept theIt is always advisable to Look for Public Canadian Universities as they are funded by the Government and have much lesser fee structure than the Private Universities.List of Canada’s Province (State) wise Top most Public UniversitiesOntarioUniversity of TorontoYork UniversityUniversity of WaterlooUniversity of WindsorRyerson UniversityQueen’s UniversityMcMaster UniversityUniversity of Western OntarioUniversity of GuelphUniversity of Ontario Institute of TechnologyCarleton UniversityUniversity of OttawaBrock UniversityLakehead UniversityLaurentian UniversityBritish ColumbiaUniversity of British ColumbiaUniversity of VictoriaSimon Fraser UniversityRoyal Roads UniversityCapilano UniversityThompson Rivers UniversityUniversity of the Fraser ValleyVancouver Island UniversityAlbertaUniversity of AlbertaUniversity of CalgaryUniversity of LethbridgeSaskatchewanUniversity of SaskatchewanUniversity of ReginaManitobaUniversity of ManitobaUniversity of WinnipegQuebecUniversity of MontrealMcGill UniversityConcordia UniversityUniversity of QuebecBishop's UniversityAll the Best for your Canadian University Hunt!They say for Canada~ “You can't buy Happiness, but you can stay in Canada and that's pretty much the same thing!”







GRE is usually required by top ranked Public Universities in Canada.It is also true that lower ranked universities might not ask for gre or if they do, they usually waive it.Colleges like George Brown College, Seneca - Toronto, Canada do not ask for GRE. They might waive off Ielts or toefl score too.Popular universities asking for GRE-University of AlbertaUniversity of CalgarySimon Fraser UniversityUniversity of British ColumbiaUniversity of VictoriaMcGill UniversityHEC MontréalWilfrid Laurier UniversityYork UniversityUniversity of WaterlooUniversity of TorontoUniversity of OttawaRyerson UniversityPopular universities not asking for Gre or might waive off -University of ReginaLaval UniversityUniversity of LethbridgeKwantlen Polytechnic UniversityRoyal Roads UniversityUniversity of the Fraser ValleyUniversity of Northern British ColumbiaUniversity of WinnipegUniversity of ManitobaUniversity of New BrunswickMemorial University of NewfoundlandBrock Universityhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ca...Lakehead Universityhttps://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tr...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Un...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Un...https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Co...Many Canadian Universities are struggling to get international students due not so great rankings and cold weather. So the will often waive off gre or English requirements.







Dear all, Is depends on course for which you want to apply. You can comment me for the same. Actually most of universities accepts GRE scores in Canada.Canada is country that accepts GRE scores in its business schools. Currently around 27 business schools in Canada accept GRE scores, out of which 5 fall among the top 100 business schools in the World. Among the top 5 business schools in the country, Western University is the only one which does not accept GRE. Also, the average GRE scores accepted in the top universities in Canada is over 150 and not more than 165.Top Business schools accepting GRE scores in Canada:To know more check Top Business Schools accepting GRE Scores across the world.For more queries comment me. Don’t forget to Upvote :)







It depends from university to university. Unlike US Universities, a large number of Canadian universities have GRE as optional. GRE is recommended, but not compulsory. So, when something is recommended, to ace your application, take the GRE.To answer your question unequivocally, take the GRE. If it is necessary, well and good. If it is recommended, you will have an edge.







Yes most Canadian universities ask for GRE scores. If you are curious what the minimal requirement for admissions would be, you can email an admissions officer to get more information about requirements. I would be sure to do this because it will also show them that you are interested in their programs as well. You can find the contact information on the admissions page of most graduate programs.













Quant - 170 Verbal- 164 AWA- 4.5/6I recently gave my GRE on 28th September 2017. Although I started my preparation 3 months prior to the examination I could not continue due to the fact that I am also preparing for other competitive exams. Also I was put down by Chicken pox and Typhoid for a month. Effectively I had little more than a month to prepare for the test. So I was quite surprised with the result that I got as you can see above. Here is how I prepared for my GRE test.Study Material -Magoosh GRE prep account (most important)Magoosh Vocabulary builder (words flashcard app)Manhattan prep GRE 5 lb. book of gre practice problemsManhattan GRE Prep Reading comprehension and EssayOfficial Guide for GRE by ETS (all three books)Various news sites such as The New Yorker , The Economist etc. ( as prescribed on Magoosh GRE blog).Study Plan -I started my preparation at the start of the month of July . As I told earlier I am also studying for other competitive exams so I could’nt devote much time to GRE. I studied for maximum 3 hours each day. I also did’nt study according to any plan. Some days it was only vocab building by flashcards and reading articles. Some days it was practicing problems Some days divided between both. Also I watched Magoosh GRE video lessons and I can say they were very useful.This is a tip for students from engineering background preparing for GRE. Don’t ignore the quantitative section even if it seems easy to you. Practice it as you would the verbal section.After recovering from my maladies I had approx 5 weeks to prepare for GRE. So I decided to tidy up my routine soI increased my GRE study time to 5–6 hours per dayIn a day I would first go through my magoosh flashcards and try to learn atleast 30 new words per day and also revise a few old words. Also I made a point to read and understand atleast 2 news articles per day .Then I would practice quantitative for approx 1 hour . I generally used timed custom practice test in Magoosh GRE account.For next 2 hours I would go through practicing the verbal section and writing essays.I learnt how to read the paragraphs swiftly and in detail. Again Magoosh video lessons were very important in this regard.Unfortunately I was not able to give any full practice test due to my surroundings but I would recommend everyone to give atleast one of them.My main focus was on improving my vocab by learning new words , their meaning and context of their uses as it appeared to me to be very useful for Sentence equivalence and Text completion questions. Again and I cannot stress this enough watching Magoosh video lessons was very important.I practiced and practiced as much as my schedule allowed me to.On the day of the examinationReach the centre atleast 1 hour prior to the commencement of test as there are plenty of verification to be done before the examination. Also carry a water bottle with you. GRE is very attentively conducted examination and staff of testing centres are very vigilant. If you have any problem feel free to ask for their help.GRE is a very easy exam as you can see in my case , with a directed and concentrated approach you can score very well ( 330+) within a relatively short amount of prep time.Be well , Be prepared and best of luck.







I’ve been tutoring the GRE for a number of years. The below is inspired by the many sessions I’ve had with students, many of whom have gone on to do very well on the GRE. A lot of it is also specific to the revised GRE, which made its debut in August 2011.  1. Use official material When preparing for the GRE, no questions prepare you better than the ones written by ETS, which is responsible for writing the questions you will see test day. As much as possible, stick to the questions in the Official Guide to the GRE so you can wrap your mind around how the test writers want you to reason.  You may not think that it makes that much of a difference, but many publishers out there have questions that require you to make certain leaps of logic—or employ questionable logic—that you will never have to do on the actual test. Then there is the fact that many questions simply aren’t as difficult or nuanced as the questions you’ll see test day. This is a problem many students encounter when using Kaplan—you are essentially taking a dumbed down version of the GRE, with often poorly constructed questions to boot.  2. Take practice tests There is no better way to prepare for test day than actually taking a mock test. You will train yourself to sit for three plus hours staring at a screen, as you are pummeled by an onslaught of GRE problems.  If possible, use only the official tests, found in the Official Guide to the New GRE. There are four such tests—two that comes with the book, and two that are computer-based and come with the CD that is part of the book. Stagger these out  over the four weeks you are prepping, so that there are no fewer than five days between tests and no more than ten days. If you are studying longer, you might also want to consider Manhattan GRE tests (see below).  Finally, practice tests will allow you to better assess your strengths and weaknesses, and help inform your study sessions in between tests.  3. Focus on weaknesses Make sure not to get carried away developing those areas in which you already excel. For instance, if you are generally strong at math problem solving questions, but if you dislike Data Interpretation (that’s the section with all the graphs), then the last thing you want to do is avoid that section. Instead make it a priority to become confident and effective at all questions relating to Data Interpretation.   4. Use the best material While official material is clearly the best prep out there, it doesn’t necessarily provide the most effective strategies. You may want to take a look at Princeton Review for helpful big picture strategies. As for specific strategies for almost every aspect of the GRE—from permutations to convoluted paragraph arguments—the Manhattan GRE books (MGRE) are the best. MGRE also has six practice tests that mimic the actual test very well (though this more so with math than with verbal). For more practice on the online format, Magoosh also offers questions that are similar to--and often more difficult--than those found on the actual test. (I should probably mention that I work for Magoosh :))  Of course there is a lot of material out there that should be avoided, especially in terms of practice content. Here is a helpful breakdown: 2013 GRE Book Reviews







I did my prep in a week. So two months is a solid amount of time.First familiarize yourself with the test pattern. The Magoosh prep videos are really good for it. Know what the sections are, approximately how much time to spend on each question and stick to it. You'll get two free practice test from ETS itself (using the Powerprep software). Go through the untimed section once and also give one of the tests (timed). So you'll have a basic idea of how your test will be. The GRE is a bit longer in duration than many other exams ( about 4 hrs). You should be able to keep a cool head in these 4 hours. Apart from the ETS practice tests you can find 3 other standardized tests (free) i.e Manhattan, Kaplan and Princeton GRE Practice Test. Or you can always buy the test package from one of the reputed institutes, but do use the three aforementioned tests. If you buy the Official GRE ETS guide, you'll get two more tests (paper-based), so I strongly recommend you get it.You will have 6 sections on the test. First you will face the AWA (Analytical) Section. Out of the 5 sections left, only 4 of them will be used for calculating your score for the test. The other one is an experimental section. They say that ETS has implemented this in order to gauge the general performance of the test takers and also for analysis for their future test papers. We will not know which is the experimental section so please do not waste any sort of time trying to figure out which one is the experimental section.We do know that after the AWA section, you will have the Quantitative and Verbal sections in a random order. The scores calculated will be taken from 2 Verbal sections and 2 Quantitative Sections. So it is important that you perform well in all the sections. You will have an optional 10-minutes break after the first three sections.So now you've given a practice test and you can roughly identify the area you are weak at. Lets tackle the Verbal section first.(As this is a nightmare to most of us)The key to scoring a 160+ in this section is a really strong vocabulary. Yes there are numerous word lists available, but don't start with them first. The Magoosh GRE Flashcards app is an absolutely brilliant foundation builder. Download the app and keep going through the words. Do it everyday or whenever you get 15mins of free time. You can also find it online in case you don't have a smartphone. It covers about 1000 words that will give you enough ammo for test. But this will probably not cover all the words that will appear in your GRE. You can then proceed with the word lists. Also two things that helped me here were 'Word Power Made Easy' and the 'Magoosh Vocab Wednesday Videos' (I strongly recommend you use the videos as much as possible). WPME equips you with a sound understanding of etymology and makes you learn new words with ease. Although it requires some commitment and patience, it is recommended only if you have too much time on your hands !Possessing a large vocab is like having a machine gun with tons of ammo. But its of no use if you do not know how to fire the gun ! You need to have the ability to understand the question clearly. You need to keep your train of thought connected as you read thorough the question and recognize what the question is asking for (this for all types RC, Sentence Completion). Also in the Reading Comprehension you might come across huge ones with relatively tough questions. The only way to fire the gun properly now is by practice. Practice practice and practice. The Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problems, Princeton GRE material, Kaplan GRE material, Manhattan GRE material are all really helpful for the amount of questions they have all together. Inbox me if you need any sort of material. I can share it over Google Drive. Don't be disheartened if your answers are mostly incorrect. Read the explanations given for the answers and understand how to approach the question. I was terrible at the beginning, but trust me the more you practice, the better you will become. You have to keep the factor of time in mind too. Remember all the questions in the GRE have the same value. If you are not able to answer the question mark it and move on to the next one. Just be sure to get back to it later. If you don't have the time for it, might as well guess the answer blindly ! You have a decent amount of time so you should be able to cover a lot of material.Next the Quantitative section. This is relatively the easier section and a score of 170 is pretty much possible. I recommend to buy the 'ETS Official Guide to the GRE® revised General Test, Second Edition'. Read through the Quantitative Prep Section throughly. It covers all the topics and concepts that you need to know for the GRE. The official guide also comes with two additional practice tests apart from the Powerprep software, that are really good. ETS prepares the GRE examination that you will be appearing for, so there is no better material (for both verbal and quant) that will give you an idea of how the questions will be. Once you've read the concepts go back to the mantra of practicing. Practice practice and practice. Remember the essence of these question will be simple. But the question will not look so. It will be tricky and manipulative (pretty much like some of our "friends"). You should be able to clearly understand what the question is asking for and work on it accordingly. Practicing tons and loads of questions will help here. Again the Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problems, Princeton GRE material, Kaplan GRE material, Manhattan GRE material are all helpful for the amount of questions they possess. Do inbox me if you need any material. Keep practicing meticulously. Don't give up if you aren't able to get the correct answers. Read through the explanation and understand how to approach the question. You can easily achieve a score of 165+. Go back to the areas you find tough, read through the concepts and practice more questions. For the multiple answers be sure to look at all the options. Few of the Data Interpretation questions will be straightforward and the others will be simple but lengthy. The ETS Material will give you a good idea of the various graphs and plots that may appear on your test day. Also get a good grip over the 'Quartiles' concept which is there in the ETS material. Grasping the concepts should not take much time but you have to apply them correctly in the examination. Commit and practice till you reach a point where no matter what the question is in front of you, you should be able to attempt it. Carefully see what the question is asking for and answer accordingly. Practice is the key for a high score in the Quant section too ! (If you are an Indian student you will have less difficulty in understanding the quant concepts as most of the topics will be covered in high school math. But without practice, the questions can even trick the highly intelligent students) Next, the AWA Section. This is actually the first section that you will face in the GRE. Now, I am not really one to give you advice for this section as I did pretty bad here. Don't get me wrong. I love absolutely writing (though I am not really good with spellings). Anything from flash fiction to poetry. But I like to do it at my own pace. The GRE however gives you only 30 mins for each essay hence I wasn't at much ease. Also I did not practice for this section at all. (No wonder I didn't score well). You'll face two essays; the 'Issue Task' and the 'Argument Task'. The "Issue Task" presents an opinion on an issue of general interest followed by specific instructions on how to respond to that issue. You have to evaluate the issue, consider its complexities and develop an argument with reasons and examples to support your views. The "Argument Task" requires you to evaluate a given argument according to specific instructions. You will need to consider the logical soundness of the argument rather than agree or disagree with the position it presents.I do know that reading through numerous essay (especially the ones that scored a 6 or 5) will give you the approach strategy. The topic pool can be found on the ETS website so do give them a read. You have loads of time, so you should be able to have a planned out method to tackle this section. Also look at the 'SparkNotes GRE section" online to find good tips for approaching this section. I've read on various blogs that for the engineering programs the schools do not give much importance to the AWA score. But if you are looking to pursue a grad program in literature or journalism, you'll need a real good AWA score.The Practice Tests.You should have atleast 5 Practice tests (the free ones I mentioned before) in hand and space them out according to your convenience and how comfortable you are with the topics. If you buy the Official ETS guide you will have two additional tests (paper-based) so I would definitely suggest you buy the guide. There is no fixed timetable for giving the tests. You give it as per your comfort level. The score you get on the ETS Practice test is quite a good approximation of what you will get on the test day so give one of the ETS Practice test a few days before your GRE. Now I had a week's time so I gave one test a day. I was able to gauge my performance after each test and scope out what I needed to work on. Do look into the explanations of the answers. Remember you should try and avoid making the same mistake twice. Keep track of your mistakes by writing them down and glance at them later before you give another test.Finally, the Test Day Section. Yes as silly as it sounds, the test day matters the most. Your nerves on the test day can either boost your performance or wreck your examination. You've done all the practice you can and now its your time to perform . Do get a good amount of sleep the night before. Keep all the required IDs with you. Reach the test center earlier than your reporting time. Carry along a small snack and a bottle of water. Keep your cool throughout the examination. If you are stuck and unable to proceed, take a deep breath and relax. It helps ! You have done loads of practice you will be able to crack that silly question but this time with a calmer state of mind. It is very easy to lose patience if you feel are't doing well but keep it together for these 4 hours and you should be able to achieve an well rounded score. Don't give up if one of your sections didn't go well you have the other sections to make up for it. But if you've practiced enough you will never have to be in that position ! Also don't worry about which section is the experimental section. As far as you are concerned, you have to do well in all the sections. Do take the 10 mins break after 3 sections to come back with a refreshed mind.If you don't get a good score or atleast what you aimed, remember GRE is not the end ! I could not get the score I aimed for and initally I was disappointed. Soon I realized that its really of no use worrying about it. What you've got is what you've got. If needed you can appear for the GRE again within 21 days, though I wouldn't recommend it (unless you got a really bad score and are willing to pay the fee for writing the examination again). I prepared exactly how I have described in the above paragraphs. I score 328 and 331 in my last two mock tests. So I was pretty confident going into the examination. But the test day nerves got to me. I was fumbling with words in the AWA section. Quantitative section I did well, but I was aiming for a perfect 170 and fell short by 3 marks. During one of the Verbal sections I had the sudden urge to pee. I had about 8 questions left with 10 minutes on the clock. Though I begged the invigilators, I was not allowed to go to the restroom till the 10 mins break. And that pretty much broke my momentum. So I came back to the rest of the sections with a cool mind, a real desire for revenge (too much drama, I know !) and breezed though them with much more ease. Hopefully the nerves won't get to you ! Best of luck in cracking the GRE ! I'll be glad to help if you need more guidance. Let us know how your exam goes. Cheers !Sorry for the long post ! Here's a Potato :(Image source : Tumblr)

The internet is flooded with awesome forums and groups for GRE aspirants. In the era of online education, the advantages of one-on-one interaction, personalized online training, doubt clearance, and many other aspects of learning are what you should capitalize on to give an edge to your preparation.However, I would like to emphasize here that even though forums are excellent sources of information, one will not be able to achieve high scores using just forums and discussion groups. It is not a prudent idea! One requires expert guidance to score high and land in his/her dream university.  With that said, here is a list of forums which one might find somewhat useful:Urch-GRE: Urch is a great place for students to interact with fellow GRE aspirants. Still it has some cons. Find the specific pros and cons of Urch-GRE forum in this Table.The GradCafe: The topics in this forum are broad, ranging from AWA analysis to Visa preparations. This forum differs from Urch and also has a set of pros and cons:Dr. Raju's Forum: This is another good forum for GRE verbal and quant preparations. There are threads which address issues related to Visa and other admission requirements.GRE PrepClub-Forum: This website is dedicated to GRE and has detailed GRE forums. The forums offer in-depth and detailed analysis of each topicEdulix forum: is known for its profile evaluation sub-forum. It is also a well thought GRE prep forum, it still lacks the volume of GRE preparation threads.For details about other forums, you can check this blog: Best online forums for GRE preparation.There are some Facebook groups which can be helpful for a self-preparing student, who seeks to get quick replies to his doubts. Check these out:MS in US fall' 2016: Though it seems a little out-dated, the group is active. People regularly post their doubts and get replies from fellow aspirants and other experienced people. It is a big community of like-minded people aiming for success in GRE.MS Dreams: This is another group with 6 k+ members looking to land in their dream universities for Master’s. The added advantage in this group is that as aspirants interact with each other, GREedge experts answer each doubt with careful analysis of the doubt. Expert advice is a big advantage any day. The group also has regular quizzes and other activities to keep the aspirants well-informed and engaged.To summarize there a few good things & the some not so good things of general user groups and forums. To state a few:Answers usually don’t come from experts that is why the answers are not carefully curated or vetted. All kinds of marketers & product pushers and highly excitable or frustrated writers take to such forums. It is highly likely to see a swaying, persuasive statement that is far from the truth or at least not universally applicable. In the field of GRE preparation, high score and university choice - personalization is everything. The decisions, teaching and training has to be quite nuanced and personalized to each student. This tends to be missing in a general, uncurated forums.Forums are a great place for you to interact with other GRE aspirants like yourself. You can clarify doubts and gain insights into personal experiences such as things to watch out for on the test day etc.That said, it is necessary to acknowledge that in these forums, it is personal experiences, not expert guidance, that takes the forefront. What works for one student may not work for another and blindly following a plan without ensuring it adheres to your strengths and problem areas is a concern.Keep your eye on the prize when you are preparing i.e, getting the best admit for your profile and choose the right method of preparation tailor-made for you.







Answer is biased for GRE since I have no interest in GMAT:You'll only need Welcome - CrunchPrep GRE.I came across this site when I was searching for taking online tests i.e., 33 Free GRE Practice Tests That You Should Definitely Take! - CrunchPrep GRE Then I started reading other posts by crunchprep.11 Reasons Why You Should Choose Online GRE Prep - CrunchPrep GRE 27 Proven Test Day Tips To Ace The GRE - CrunchPrep GRE The Ultimate Guide to Scoring 330+ on the GRE - CrunchPrep GRE Manhattan GRE Book Review - CrunchPrep GRE Top 101 High Frequency GRE Words - CrunchPrep GRE How Long Should Your GRE Essay Be? A Data Driven Answer - CrunchPrep GRE 21 Killer GRE Essay Quotes You Should Be Using Right Now - CrunchPrep GRE What is the GRE Experimental Section All About? - CrunchPrep GRE And the best post by them, according to me is the followingThe Ultimate List of US Universities for GRE Scores 300 to 310 - CrunchPrep GRE The Ultimate List of US Universities for GRE Scores 310 to 320 - CrunchPrep GRE The Ultimate List of US Universities for GRE Scores 320 to 340 - CrunchPrep GRE And they are very responsive in the comments section and the discussion page. So take your time exploring it and be successful in your endeavours!







There are lots of forums which will help you prepare for GRE. There are apps like Magoosh, ChalkStreet, higheredu.com, Facebook groups and pages which will help you prepare for GRE/GMAT.GRE involves 3 sections which are namely analytical reasoning, quants and verbal. Indians or Asians in general don’t face much trouble when it comes to the quants section but a fair chunk of them find the verbal section quite challenging since they aren’t accustomed to the vocabulary.GRE is predominantly a vocabulary based test. Being thorough with the high frequency (300) words could make a huge difference in your GRE score. Even a few marks can cost you a seat in your dream university. The knowledge of your vocabulary is immensely tested in various questions like sentence correction, text completion and reading comprehension.Personally I would recommend ChalkStreet since you want to be a part of forums which have everything to do with GRE/GMAT. They have dedicated Facebook groups to help GRE aspirants. They also offer free counselling for the aspirants and if you have any queries or doubts you can always ping them and their team of experts will clear your doubts immediately. They also have a discussions forum on their website and app where you can interact with fellow aspirants as well as their experts.ChalkStreet is a great app for android users and it is also available as a website which will help you ace the GRE. It is a website which has courses on diverse subjects at levels to suit the learner. Apart from courses the app/website also has a lot of articles related to higher education. It will not just help you improve your vocabulary immensely. It will also help you with the quants section. It has vast collection of articles and practise questions. There are videos which deal with only the high frequency words and the various shortcuts like etymology which you can use to remember the words and the in-context meaning.







Hey, congratulations for opting for higher education abroad. Well, there are a number offorums online including GREPrepClub, GREedge, Mangoosh, CrackVerbal, GRE-Urch,Gradcafe forums etc which could help you prepare for your GRE but from a personalpoint of view I could say that you could study the three sections of GRE from differentwell known sources.Quantitative section:Manhattan, Princeton and ETS publishers have published really wonderful books forquantitative reasoning.Verbal section:It requires a wonderful vocabulary and for that you should make the dictionary your bestfriend.  Some good dictionaries for the preparation are:1. Dictionary.com - The world’s favorite online dictionary!- This widely used online dictionary comes with thesaurus,sentence explanations etc.2. Oxford Advanced Learner&#39;s Dictionary: It comes with a thesaurus along withother features like grammatical usages etc.3. Concise English Dictionary and Thesaurus: This dictionary is available as amobile application with various useful features like explained meaning, sentenceformation etc.Memorize app and Magoosh Flashcard app can serve the purpose too.Analytical writing section:ETS also provides an online service known as ScoreItNow! It is an online writingpractice service that helps one in the preparation for the Analytical Writing section of theGRE. ScoreItNow! has a few unique features that can prove to be beneficial to the GREaspirants. You can submit your essays on this web-based tool and get an immediatescore by ETS’s e-rater scoring system. You receive feedbacks on the essays submittedby you and get suggestions on how to improve your analytical writing skills. You canalso review graded essays on the topics you select. This tool enables you to judge thelevel of your preparation.Finally, I would recommend you to enroll yourself for weekly practice tests once youthink you are more or less prepared for GRE. Those tests enable you to understandwhere you stand such that you can gear up and work harder to achieve the highest.Refer to the following blogs by GyanDhan to know more about how to prepare for theverbal section and the analytical writing section:GyanDhan ace-GRE- Verbal-sectionGyanDhan







Database of admitted GRE scores, community of students .Bsfsos aka By the students, For the students, Of the students was created to build and maintain the database of institutions admission cut off scores and reviews to help upcoming students in their admissions journey.Bsfsos GRE College predictor uses these data contributed by students to predict colleges to upcoming students based on their scores and experience.Data which is available publicly on Bsfsos is free and open to everyone.The data on bsfsos is purely contributed by public, Bsfsos in no way guarantees accuracy of publicly contributed data such as institution cut off and personal admitted scores. These data are used at your own risk, while we try our best to maintain legit data and delete reported and invalid data.Students who contribute data such as their admitted scores or institution cut off scores are made publicly available on Bsfsos. Bsfsos respects privacy of users and do not display any sensitive data of users publicly. Community peers hold right to delete and alter any data contributed by public without notification.Please share your admitted stats on Bsfsos takes less than 10 seconds and helps 1000s of upcming students.Let me know if you guys need any help







Dear GRE folks,I think most of you are familiar with http://greprepclub.com/?fl=menuplatform, which is still in development not comparing with GMAT club. This platform is very convenient for your preperations, because it gives you possibilities:1. Become familiar with recent and diverse GRE questions2. Comment, and interact with other people regarding the questions3. Add questions and seek for an explaination4. Make a network and engage in preperation process through a flexible platform5. It is free to sign up, and includes a lot of GRE materials 6. There are multiple other benefits in this web-site, which you would explore after signing upThe reason of why I am writing this letter is that I noticed how in similar GMAT platform, GMAT people are in intensive engagement--commenting, debating, discussing and so forth. So, lets develop our platform to increase our grades and have a fun.







 students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous.  When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4.  Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay. 5.  Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.Source: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE







Hey Redwan! Thanks for the A2A!Before I start with this answer, I would like to be very straightforward about this that the GRE has no limits when it comes to the amount of types or questions that might come under various topics. But yes, according to most trends till now, there are 3 main segments which can be further subdivided into various topics as below.Analytical Writing : This section accounts for just 6 marks out of the total 340. The small section isn't really “small” when it comes to strength or difficulty of the question. In the first question, the candidate is normally asked to discuss an issue presented in hand. In the second question, the candidate is asked to discuss an argument and present different scenarios according to their analytical ability. In this section, the knowledge of the candidate is of zero significance and all of the marks are awarded on the basis of the Quality of Analysis of the problem.Verbal Reasoning : The verbal reasoning section accounts for a major chunk of the general test. This section generally has 3 parts : Reading Comprehension, Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence.- The Reading Comprehension is basically the major section as it accounts for about 50–55% of the Verbal Section. The easiest trick to crack this sub-section is developing the ability to prioritise the important information from the unimportant and irrelevant information. This helps a lot since the questions asked are not specified to a particular sentence or paragraph of the content but is on the general wide sense of it.- In the Text Completion sub section, one is expected to understand the inference of the sentence that is due and fill in a phase or words to make sure the sentence makes sense, is grammatically correct and converges to general meaning of it.- The Sentence Equivalence section tests if you can understand and produce two similar sentences, different in construction but having the same inference in general. This asks you to select multiple words from the options that give the same final conclusion.Here is a list of TOPICS that generally need to be covered from a syllabus point of view :a) Nouns, Pronouns, Adjectives etc.b) Verbs c) Tensed) Subject Verb Agreemente) Sentence ParallelismQuantitative Reasoning : Another Math-based vast section of GRE which requires a good sound knowledge of High School mathematics and a LOT OF PRACTISE to crack. There are generally 4 sub-sections in this one - Quantitative Comparison, Single-Choice questions, Multiple-Choice Questions and Numerical Questions. This section requires use of a calculator which is provided. The main TOPICS that need special attention are :a) Basic Mathematic Formulasb) Numbersc) Operationsd) Percentage, Ratios and Proportionse) Profit and Lossf) Interests - Simple & Compoundg) Distance, Speed, Timeh) Permutations and Combinationsi) Equationsj) Set theory and Statsk) Probabilityl) Geometrym) Areas and Volumes.This is pretty much it. Please note that all the information above is out of my own rough memory and I have tried covering most if not all the topics. I highly recommend you get the GRE Guide and related books to give you a better idea as this post is merely a go to and the books will be the ultimate helpers and guides.Just an FYI, I do work for an Ed-Tech firm based out of New Delhi, India which is aimed at building awesome careers abroad! Check us out at http://www.leverageedu.comIf you want to take this discussion further forward or you want any help regarding your career, feel free to reach me out at samrat@leverageedu.com







GRE exam/syllabus is always the same for all kind of students of different branches,fields,of any age(whether a person is a graduate,post graduate or has a working experience(at whatsoever designation),etc.GRE is required for masters or PhD.( in case you don't know,extra info) GMAT- masters (for MBA) TOEFL-bachelor's,masters IELTS-bachelor's masters PTE-bachelor's ,masters****Some programs or universities ask for GRE score, some doesn't. Generally, GRE score is required if you are applying to any STEM ( Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics ) program or Business Studies( MBA ).GRE is a computer based test type.Test content- 1-VERBAL REASONING ( reading comprehension,text completion,sentence equivalence)( 20 ques each in 2 sections-30 min each)Reading comprehension - 8-9 short reading passages of 1 para long & will have 1 or 2 questions related to them. There will be 1-2 long reading passages per test which will have 3+ questions associated with them. Questions are multiple choice questions,you are required to choose either single or multiple correct answers as per asked.Text completion- there will be 1,2 or 3 blanks need to fill in. 1 blank- 5 choices to pick from 2 or 3 blanks- each has 3 choices to pick from.Sentence equivalence- you are supposed to select 2 answer choices that best complete a sentence & provide similar meaning/synonyms.2- QUANTITATIVE REASONING( 20 questions each in 2 sections-35 min each)Quantitative comparisonMultiple choice questions with either one option or more than one optionNumeric entry questions.3-ANALYTICAL WRITING ASSESSMENT (AWA)1 one logical argument-an argument is given you have to either write for it or write against it. 2- One critical issue-a topic is given you have to write an essay.( awa - no options are given, 30 min each)Test duration- 3 hours 45 minsTest scores- 340 (quantitative+verbal), awa(0-6), good score 315+ considered.Test scores validity- 5 yearsOfficial scores recieved- online 10-15 days after your test date.Test fees- US $ 195Test conducted- ETS PrometricWebsite of exam conductors- www.ets.org/greWhen is test conducted?- on weekdays throughout the year.Free score reporting at the time of exam - any 4 universities of your choice.I hope I covered enough information incase you need more info or I've forgotten something,do let me know! :)







more than half a minute for you to understand. Mark it for review and come back to the question later.AWA: Prepare well in advance. All the essay prompts have already been given on the ETS website. Identify the broad thematic areas these prompts and prepare some POVs and examples before-hand. This way you will never go blank whenever you get a prompt.Between sections: Although the GRE tells that you get a 1 minute break screen between (which is true), what they don’t tell you is that the timer doesn’t start until you click the “Continue” button on the welcome screen of the next section. So, take time - yawn, smile, get some rest for your eyes. :)All the best!







Day before GRE examYou have done your utmost to prepare yourself for the big day. The race has been long and you have come very close to the finishing line. You have poured all your energies in meticulously planning for your exam, studied exhaustively and done countless revisions. The last thing that you want now is to ruin your exam performance by any careless slip-up. Now that you are fully equipped to take the much awaited GRE/SAT/GMAT exam ,make sure to follow the right strategy.Here are a few tips that will help you heighten your performance on the D Day:No eleventh hour cramming up: The worst mistake one makes is engaging in crazy cramming sessions a day prior to the exam. It is in fact a time to organize your thoughts and mentally catalogue everything you have learnt so far.Last minute study does you more harm than good as your brain needs some time to assimilate fresh information and reproduce it at the right time. Moreover your short term memory gets blocked with new information and obstructs long term memory recalls.Spend time oiling your brain : Your brain to needs to unwind just as your body does. This helps in enhancing your focus , attention span and information retention. Taking mock test a day before the exam can be counter productive . Also the last 48 hours are not suitable for gathering new information rather it is time to consolidate the information already gathered .Refresh information on exam format : You might have already acquainted yourself with the test format but it is always a good idea to refresh your information so that you can easily anticipate test pattern ,be mentally prepared and forestall probable test comprehension glitches.Get a comforting night sleep : In order to regulate your sleep-wake cycles you ought to lay out a healthy sleep plan and religiously stick to it at least a week prior to your exam . Your mind needs to be fresh , alert and at peace on the exam day so make sure you retire to bed early the previous night . Taking unnecessary stress can lead to mental exhaustion and deplete your physical energy level as well. Just take a chill pill and do not let fatigue get the better of you.Make a list of essentials to be carried to the centre : Remember to carry your duly signed legal photo id ,admission ticket and additional clothing to the test centre . Carrying an extra layer can come handy as the temperature at the centre may be lower than what your body is accustomed to.Keep instructions on way to tests centres handy : It always pays off to get directions to your test centre beforehand so that you are not ruffled with last minute hassles of locating your centre. Also keep some buffer time in hand for unpredictable traffic snarls.Do not overindulge in greasy grub : Start eating as light and healthy as possible a week before the exam to stave off any chances of falling sick due to wrong intake . In an attempt to feel better and combat anxiety, test aspirants at times tend to gorge on high carb and oily fast food. This is not just heavy on their stomach, but also results in fatigue and weariness.It is rightly said that Calmness is the cradle of power . Cool and composed mind is a sure shot sign of a true winner. It is therefore important not let your anxiety bouts overpower you. Make the most of your preparation by projecting a calm mind set and confidently put your best foot forward.For more information on GRE/TOEFL/IELTS/GMAT, please visithttp://www.collegepond.com/Interact with students on our Facebook groupMS in US 2019 || CollegepondCollegePond







Trick that worked for me was::1. Try to convince your mind to dettach itself from each passing question by internally chanting:"Be in the Moment" after each question which helped me to focus on current question rather than worrying about upcoming questions or recalling what glitches I made in previous questions.2. Atleast 3 Mock up tests should be taken before exam day to evaluate your capabilities. Because these exams are just a measure of your capabilities. If you score less in mockup then you know on which section you need to work on and also be alert on them in final exam.3. Magoosh App for Verbal Recalling and Self prepared cheatsheet of handy quant formulas or fundamentals.4. Don't discuss your preparation work before exam because it would generate pride in you and with pride sometimes over confidence build up which badly impacts your timings in exam.5. Set predefined time limit for each type of question, because if you give more time to one specific question then you will loose time on all upcoming questions.For example: assign only 1.20min to each question, go to next question even if you can't answer current question within assigned time. At last you will have time to return to this question if you already plan some 15mins as Buffer time.







This might be counterintuitive and I only prescribe this if you've had earlier experience working the night before exams. I was awake until 3am on my GRE day. Completed Barron's 333 and revised Barron's 1100 during that stint from 9pm to 3am. Worth mentioning, I got a 166 in Verbal and 170 in quant. But I screwed up AWA section and can attribute it mostly to lack of sleep.Lastly, I see many demoralising answers. Don't let these guys get you and be super confident tomorrow.







Getting tired before your exam is the worst thing you can do. You’re just increasing the odds that you’ll make a silly mistake, thus wasting the time you spent prepping for challenging questions.Best Last-Minute GRE Hacks:1. Know the format of the GRE backwards and forwardsThe GRE is a multiple choice test. Calculate how much time you have per question, and then give yourself slightly less time, on average, to complete each one. When you notice that you’re spending too long on a question – skip it and make a notation so you can remember to come back to it later. Don’t allow your self to waste time on hard questions when you could be getting more questions right.2. Trust in what you already knowAbove all, stay calm! If you’re reading the question, and you have an idea of what the answer is in your head, look for that answer in the choices. If it’s there, then go with it. If it’s not, then eliminate any answer choice that is definitely wrong. If it’s a 50/50 guess, it’s okay to go with your gut unless you have a factual reason to go with the other answer. Don’t second guess yourself, and don’t spend too much time on questions that are too hard or confusing. Come back to them if and when you have time at the end.3. One Week Until the GRE TipsKeep the intensity high and continue to study. If you are unsure what to do in your final week, here are some suggestions:Take a practice test 5 – 7 days before the actual exam so that you can practice your pacing and build up your stamina for the long test ahead. Make sure to include all the essays and an experimental section too.Review your notes, especially problems and concepts that you have struggled with. It’s important to have everything you’ve learned fresh in your mind on test day.Any practice you do at this point should be timed.Work on your weaknesses as much as you can.4. GRE Tips and Tricks for When You Have One Day LeftDo nothing! That’s right. It might seem counter-intuitive and it might seem like the last thing you should do, but you need to rest up for the big day. Cramming is not going to help you one bit on the test.No test preparation all day! Seriously!Eat a large, healthy, leisurely dinner—no alcohol!Lay out all that you will need for test dayGo to bed earlier than usual.5. The Day of the GREABSOLUTELY NO LAST MINUTE TEST PREPARATION!Eat a large breakfast, full of protein.Do relaxing, fun activities to pass time until the test.Light exercise is a great way to burn off anxiety and prime your mind for the test.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.Vijay,Alumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT







Hello there,Thanks for the A2A.Before I get started, recently I came across this ebook that provides a lot of informative tips on GRE Verbal.eBook on GRE Verbal tipsSo, The Verbal section of GRE can give many students sleepless nights. A majority of students have not grown up cultivating the habit of reading and hence when suddenly faced with the onslaught of the dreaded verbal section, they are at sea. Repeatedly scoring poorly in the verbal section in Mock tests can demoralize students further taking them to the brink of frustration. If you pay close attention, I have laced the paragraph above with idioms. I am not trying to be funny, just trying to drive my point in.My point is, just like Rome wasn’t built in a day. You cannot become a grammarian within a short span of time. It will take effort and more than the usual kind of effort because when it comes to language, you will have to tune your brain to think in a certain way. Let me explain.Most Indians learn English through sound. They hear it spoken by friends, classmates, colleagues etc. Why is this a terrible way to pick up English? Because, your friends, colleagues and classmates may not be adhering to the rules of grammar. Thats why so many youngsters go around confidently saying ‘anyways’ instead of ‘anyway’.If you want to master English, you must learn it by reading. You don’t have to read literature or classics (although that would be great), you can read simple novels or articles as well. But reading is a habit that has to be cultivated. You’ll have to be disciplined about it.The other thing is that, not everyone thinks in English. This will prove detrimental when you are trying to make a point or give your opinion. You are not alone though. A majority of students struggle with the Verbal section.Research and statistics show that on an average, Indians score between 144 to 149 in the Verbal section. This is bad because, China, a country that largely speaks Mandarin outperforms us by scoring an average of 150 in the Verbal Section. English is not an alien language to us, Indians. We see it displayed everywhere, we hear it spoken everywhere. Why then, do we perform so poorly in a language that is so widely spoken in our country?There can be many reasons behind this. The biggest being that in most cases, learning English stops with school education. Most students haven’t read a book in their lives and quite openly declare that fact as well. Trust me, it is nothing to be proud of.Mark Twain once said“A person who doesn’t read has no advantage over a person who can’t read”.Let that thought sink in...On an average, Indian students score between 153 to 155 in the Quant Section. What does this tell us?Indian students fall short of getting into top colleges because of their poor performance in the Verbal Section. This is a sad state of affairs. Why fall behind or fall short when the obstacle ahead is not an impenetrable mountain but simply a roadblock? We can overcome this, all of us. With persistence and discipline.What does the Verbal Section entail?For those unaware, The Verbal Ability section contains three types of sections.Reading Comprehension [Download eBook: Examples for RC]Text CompletionSentence EquivalenceReading comprehension contains multiple choice questions and involves critical reasoning. Understanding the tone of the passage, motive of the author, idea behind the passage, the argument in the passage etc. Text completion and sentence equivalence will test your vocabulary. Recollecting words, their meanings and antonyms will come in handy here.GRE also has Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA) section which evaluates your writing ability. The objective behind this section is to assess your clarity of thought and objectivity. Do you talk in circles? Do you beat around the bush? Are you convinced about your own argument? Do you understand things with perspective or preconceived prejudice? All this comes out through this section.Students usually perform poorly in Verbal section because it is difficult to mug up 2000 words in a span of 3 months. Additionally learning the meaning of a word and using it correctly in a sentence are completely different things. You many know what the word ‘acrimonious’ means. You may even know its antonym. But if I ask you to use it while conversing, you’ll falter. Additionally, the Indian system of education, with respect to learning English is very basic. I am sure you had reading comprehension even in school. But back then it was a piece of cake. You didn’t have to read between the lines. Whereas in GRE, you will have to. GRE tries to gauge your proficiency and not just your familiarity with the language.How do you grab the bull (English) by its horns?Step 1:READ! Read everyday. If you are someone who is averse to reading, you will find it impossible to read through several Reading Comprehension passages under the pressure of a ticking clock. Your eyes will hurt or your mind will wander. So once you decide to take the GRE, cultivate the habit of reading. Pick up articles that bore you and work your way through it. Does Finance stump you? Are you on the back foot when it comes to Global affairs? Read through articles that require a bit of effort.Why?Because in this way you are training your mind to focus and grasp concepts that your mind usually blocks.Read analytically.....Wondering what it means? Follow the below:Notice the play of words.Keep a note of the metaphors used.Grasp the tone of the passage.Does the writer have strong views?Or is the writer simply venting?Is the writer placing facts before you with the hope to persuade you?Does the article end conclusively?Or does it end on a cliffhanger?Is the article convincing?Every passage can be broken down into a sequence of ideas that the author wants to convey that are all interconnected by a common theme. Breaking down a passage in such a manner while reading is called analytical reading.For more tips on reading comprehension, follow the GRE Masterclass Series by Mr.Yogish Lavanis.Masterclass 1: How to master Analytical Reading.Masterclass 2: How to get the Main Idea of RC passageMasterclass 3: How to Identify the purpose of RC passageStep 2Build your vocabulary. Don’t mug up words. Make it a fun process. Don’t you envy people who have the gift of the gab? Well you can have that gift too. It's all a matter of practice.For instance when you come across a new word, understand its character. Is it an adjective? An adverb? How do you use it in a sentence? Is there a simpler word substitute? Ask yourself these questions. Get to know the word.Have you noticed that a certain smell triggers memories? An old song triggers nostalgia? How does this happen? Our mind stores away information and retrieves it when triggered to do so. Thus the mind can be easily deceived into remembering things.Now use this to your advantage. Associate words with pictures. Or build a story around it. Or learn a set of words in a different part of your room. This trickery will help you recollect what you learn.Also use the words you learn in conversation. Of course, do not bombard your friends with a series of big words or they might stop talking to you. Then whom will you practice with? Use the new words sparingly but USE them. Reach and talk to students who have taken the GRE before and managed to score your target Verbal Score. You can find a long list of them in the GREedge Wall of Fame.One of the most informative videos, I came across for verbal specific tips was by this student named Aikiya, who in a 50 minute seminar shares a bunch of tips that can change the way you approach GRE VerbalVideo Recording of GREedge Guest Talk with Aikya (164 - Verbal, 165 - Quant)Step 3Take tests. Work smart instead of hard. This also applies to those who are fairly proficient in English to begin with. Do not take your knowledge for granted. If you are good at English, get better at it. There is always room for improvement. If you are truly interested in mastering a language then I would recommend you get to the root of things. I mean literally. Start learning the etymology behind the word.The problem with coaching classes is that it assumes everyone is at the same level. It uses the same yardstick for everyone. This is where things go awry. Some are more proficient than others in Quant and need a slight push in verbal. Others are grammarians already but cannot grasp basic concepts in Quant. GRE is a race where it is absurd to assume that everyone begins at the same point. Some are way ahead, other’s haven’t even reached the racetrack yet. However personalized coaching will focus on strengthening your weak areas. Your personal coach will help you cover that achilles heels. So when you embark upon the GRE race, remember to be well equipped, self motivated and ensure when you look up at the stands, you have the best coach cheering you on.







Needless to say, the secret here is to cultivate an overall first-rate vocabulary.This does not just mean that you need memorize the quintessential 3-4k words suggested by Barron's and the likes. With the new GRE pattern, a candidate will not be expecting synonym/antonym questions any more, but rather the missing word, sentence completion types. Which means that although it is helpful to know all the definitions clearly, it is easier and supplementary to know the typical use cases and the context in which the words might be found.As pointed out by Surabhi, using a GRE Vocab app (Quizlet, Magoosh Online GRE Prep!) is the best bet a candidate has got, but personally I'd supplement my preparation with a Google lookup (search "define <word>") of the words for synonyms/antonyms and dictionary rundown for the most common phrases/sentences.If you have time on your hands, cultivating a flair for diverse reading helps a lot, both for Verbal and Analytical Writing. You can try Economist Debates: Past Debates, Harvard Business Review Magazine, Articles, Blogs, Case Studies, Books, and the likes.Also, this is kind of fun: Visuwords™ online • Visual Dictionary, Visual Thesaurus







You can read up on my suggestions for Verbal preparation in my post How to score a 330 on the GRE – Shechops – MediumHowever, if you are really keen to elevate your Verbal score drastically, here’s what I would suggest:Pick up the Manhattan Sentence Equivalence, Text Completions and Reading Comprehension books - and actually read through them. They explain tips and strategies for approaching the verbal questions. Solve all the questions in these, read up on the right answer and notice the mistakes you are making. This gives a more thorough foundation for your Verbal preparation.Solve all the Verbal questions in the Manhattan 5lb Book. Each and every one. If you are doing TC or SE, note down all the words you do not know or are making a mistake with - find their meanings and maintain a personal word list for yourself, of words you do not know. Similarly solve all the RCs and study the mistakes you make.The Quizlet App for vocabulary words is great, as suggested by others and as is mentioned in my post.Doing all these steps should ensure that you see an improvement in your Verbal scores. It will take some time and effort but will be worth it.Hope this helps!







GRE Verbal is an ordeal to test the aptitude to evaluate sentences and paragraphs, comprehend and complete sentences and vocabulary skills. The test comprises of three sections namely completion of text, reading comprehension and sentence correspondence.Adept vocabulary·        An excellent stock of words is directly proportional to better perception of the language and refined expression of concepts and ideas in a coherent and eloquent style. The Barron`s word list comprising of around four thousand words is possibly the most potent guide to a voluble vocabulary. If you cannot handle the entire corpus then the “Ubiquitous 800” list should also suffice.·        Expand your awareness and comprehension of antonyms, synonyms and root words for exhaustive understanding.·        Memorize the words through constant revision and recollection by making use of the words learnt in sentences or through the more amusing way of flash cards.Text completion tactics·        The examiner in this section will test how far you are able to choose words that would complete the sentences to form sensible and coherent ideas. The trick is to look for the indications within the given passage to form the meaning and this will require careful and meticulous reading.·        With the repletion of choices on offer you can go horribly wrong and the only correct way is to follow the context of the content to choose the correct words so that rational and coherent meaning comes out of the given text.·        Complete the easier challenge first and then focus on the harder blanks to fill. Once you have made your choice reread the entire text to confirm that your choices are correct.Sentence equivalence made easy·        For this section you will be presented with a question with one word substituted by a blank which you must fill with two interchangeable words from multiple choices. A robust vocabulary will see you through this section and the trick of this trade that among the six options, three will be evidently incorrect but the remaining three would be a close call. The correct answer invariably would be the exact synonym.·        Try to grasp the different facets of meanings of a word and try to locate the word root for words you do not recognize.Mastering reading comprehension·        This section will demand both vocabulary strength and adroit understanding of English but also speedy reading and grasping capacities to go with them. You must prepare yourself by reading quality newspaper articles and editorials and English classics to stay abreast of challenging language and style of writing.·        It is absolutely rudimentary to understand the course and interpretation behind the given text. Brush up your skills of critical analysis emphasizing on recognizing hypothesis, premises and conclusion of an argument. Look out for the primary theme and concept, tenor, intention and rationale of the passage.·        Be careful about the inferences and deductions you make and how far the passage actually agrees with it. Your answer no matter how sensible may not be apt if it is in lieu with the intentions of the passage.You will also need to focus on your Vocabulary - Try Using flashcard - Gradestack offer more than 3500+ Vocab flashcard which will help you improve your vocab. GradeStack course is available on iOS, web & Andriod.  Get GRE Complete Tutor by Nova







Learning as many words as possible is the key.If you own a smartphone, I would recommend downloading a flashcard app called Quizlet. Words are quicker to learn this way.This site covers almost all the high frequency words - GRE Vocabulary. The additional vocabulary tests will help you remember the word meanings.Don't go on solving tests until you've memorized at least half of the important words. Once you've successfully built up the GRE vocabulary, work on improving your accuracy.Practice hard. Good luck.







my fb page will be of some help.. Visual Dictionary Project







Ideally,If you are planning for fall intake, then start preparing from/ after 5th semester (December). You will have winter vacations for roughly 1 month, make most of it. And try to appear by/ during 6th semester (April) itself.The idea is that you won’t be very busy during this time as many colleges in India have cultural/ technical/ youth festivals, Industrial visits etc going on, so environment is very much chilled out. Also the work load is less as you are still not looking for jobs there is no tension whatsoever regarding campus placements, final year projects etc.This is by far the best time to study/ prepare and appear for GRE and TOFEL.Bonus: If you end up scoring less than what you were expecting, you will still have couple of month in place to re-appear for the exam.Practically,You should start with your preparation after 6th semester (June) and make full use of summer vacation as well as initial 2 months of 7th semester.Most universities start accepting applications from October or November, so make it a point to appear for GRE/ TOFEL by October it self. This will give you ample time to do all other documentation related work.Try to get done with both the exams as soon as possible.Cheers! :)







Well,If you are already thinking about it, then you should gear up and start preparing for GRE and TOEFL.I am conducting GRE quants and verbal training for last 3 years now, I have seen students from various backgrounds preparing for exams.Engineering students prepare for the exam during their 3rd year of engineering i.e 5th semester. But I have an opinion of my own, any student from whichever branch of engineering should start preparing from the 2nd year of engineering.During your 2nd year, you have less work from university and also have fewer commitments. You can prepare slowly with your own pace and practice as much as possible.This is beneficial for your other exams as well, like CAT, GMAT, CET etc. even if you are not planning for Higher studies abroad, preparing for GRE and TOEFL drastically improves your English Vocabulary and Speaking skills which are must for Jobs as well.Overall, to sum up, the answer, Prepare for GRE in 2nd Year, appear in 3rd-year winter, even if you fail to secure great GRE score in 1st Attempt, you can re-appear for exams during 3rd-year summer break.I advise TOEFL students to appear for TOEFL just 6 to 7 months before they are planning to apply.







If you are planning to go in Fall semester, say 2017, then start preparing from July 2016. Give GRE exam in end of October 2016, TOEFL in next 15 days so let us assume mid Nov 2016. You will have all results till start of Dec 2016, till then prepare your SOP, resume and transcripts. APply to universities till end of Jan 2017. Wait for results till April 2017. Apply for Visa in May, give visa interview in June 2017, get you tickets done in June, Fly in July or August!







engineering students prefer to take GRE in their third year in the month of March or August as GRE requires to be free and students are usually free in the third year .In case of TOEFL, one can take the exam in September as people are done with their GRE and have no other Academic commitments.remember ,GRE Scores are valid till 5 years and TOEFL scores are valid till 2 yearsfor more information you can refer to the article below.When Should One Take The GRE - GRE Preparation Guide







May to July of the one year less than you want to go abroad or to start your session.likeif your last sem is ending in 2018 and want to start in same year then in August of 2017.Because it takes approximately 8–10 months to get proper things done and some want you to first complete your bachelors and apply then so if you are completing your degree in 2017 then you are eligible for 2018 batch whose admissions will start from early october to late January (few choices), so that means give GRE and other tests by May to july of same year.So two options ,Be early, (have 3–6 months to prepare)Be On time (have about 8–12 months to prepare)If this confuses you check my similar answers.Hope it helps :D .







Lets see if we can approach this problem as an optimization problem. So basically you want to maximize the score, minimize the risk of bad scores, and maximize the time of buffer kept for application.So imagine the earlest deadline for application is 15th November. You need to get your documents and all in place by 1st November. This includes time for tasks like collecting marksheets and asking your recommenders for their letters. All these takes a while. In a nutshell, you should have a concrete decision to apply to a particular college by 1st October. If you are a PhD aspirant you will also need to finish your preapps another 15 days before this time. Thats around 15th September. All in all by 15th of September you need all your scores. Thats the date we are aiming for. Note that TOEFL scores take a while to come. But this question is about GRE so we will skip that for a moment. I believe in 2nd chances in order to rectify your mistakes. With Scoreselect its easier now. So say you appear for your first GRE in the first week of July. Then if you ace it well and good. Otherwise, you need to have a cool off period of 60 days. That will entitle you to reappear again in Sep 1st week. So In my opinion, the best time to apply is July 1st --- 3rd week....







1.ETS official guide to GRE revised General Test and Official GRE Practice QuestionsThe must-have books for any test-taker. No other publisher beats the questions coming from the people who make the test. The official guide should be your primary reference for understanding the types of questions in different sections.2. Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy GuidesThese books are awesome. First of all, the majority of them (6 out of 8) are devoted to math: Algebra, fractions, geometry, number properties, word problems and quantitative comparisons. The practice questions in Math are divided into three sections easy, medium and hard. There are also two books devoted to the verbal section: Reading comprehension and Text completion & sentence equivalences. The books dealing with verbal section consists of more challenging questions than what actually appears in the test. Keep in mind that these books aren't going to teach you math or English. Their sole purpose is to remind you about enough of the tricks required to do well on the GRE test. Another advantage of these books are that each of them comes with 6 online tests which I would definitely recommend taking. The interface is very similar to that of the actual test, and so is the difficulty.3.Manhattan 5lb book of GRE practice problemsBuy this book if you want to practice more challenging problems in Quant section.4.(Optional)Manhattan Prep LSAT Reading ComprehensionI had trouble with RC section from the beginning of my preparation. Even though this book is for a different exam, it actually teaches you how to approach a passage. This one helped me tremendously in improving my skills for tackling a passage. I would recommend this book only if you are facing serious trouble in the Reading comprehension section.For complete review of all the GRE books available in the market, check this linkNew GRE Book Reviews - Magoosh GRE BlogAll the best!







Well the GRE is a unique exam in the sense that you can't really “prepare” for it. There is no fixed pattern or repeated questions. What the GRE really tests is what you have learnt right from elementary school.For the verbal section, I'd suggest start reading magazines like the Scientific American or the Economist every day for a 30 min. Do this for atleast 2–3 months before your exam. I didn't rote learn any words. What I remembered was in what context the word was used. Trust me, this is a better way than memorizing words from apps and flashcards.For Quants, I used the Manhattan strategy guides. Go through them once and solve the corresponding sections in the Manhattan 5LB book. The 5LB book is good for verbal too.Finally, don't forget to solve atleast 5 mock tests because they'll build up your endurance. Trust me the GRE is really tiring.







Thanks for the A2A!There are a lot of answers to this question and I can see most of them have covered the more popular books on the market. It makes little sense then to discuss books, instead let’s talk about the other resources available to you.GRE Diagnostic Tests: If you’re just starting your preparation, a good (free!) resource you should be taking advantage of is a diagnostic test. This will tell you where you stand currently and which areas require more focus. This is important because it’ll help you streamline your preparation and ensure you spend time only where time is needed.GRE apps: Another great resource I think should be mentioned are GRE apps. Considering how much time we’re likely to spend on our phones on a regular basis, this seems like a terrific option. Accessible anytime, anywhere. You could start with the GRE Test Prep app by Galvanize. It comes with hundreds of GRE questions, excellent explanations to answers as well as a system to track your readiness/progress. And it’s completely free. If you’re looking to hone your verbal skills in particular, there are apps for that as well. Ultimate Vocabulary Prep and GRE Flashcards are some of the more popular apps for the same.GRE forums: For invaluable information from your peers and experts all over the globe, a forum is an absolute no-brainer. You can post questions on anything GRE-related and hope to receive answers. These forums are curated to cater specifically to a GRE-curious crowd so you can be sure to find something of value whenever you need it. Some of the more popular forums include GRE Prepclub, thegradcafe, urch etc.GRE Videos: Make the most of all of the free videos available on YouTube that offer explanations and tips for topics ranging from Permutations & Combinations to Analytical Writing Analysis. Looking for ‘hacks’ on acing the GRE? There are videos for those as well.As you can see, aside from books, there are plenty of other resources you can and should rely on to give yourself the best possible chance at a high score.I hope this was helpful to you!Good luck!







GRE Preparation Books for General (Verbal & Quant)ETS’s Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test 2nd Edition: This book should be referred to by every student who is preparing for the GRE exam. Test takers recommend that aspirants should not even miss out on a single page while studying from this book. Published by those who have created the test, this book contains four, solved tests. Two of these tests are available on the CD-ROM. This GRE preparation book features extensive list of problems on Verbal Reasoning and Quantitative Reasoning.Barron’s New GRE 19th Edition: This is also a well-written book for GRE preparation. It contains two full-length study models and one diagnostic test. The full length study models are designed on the actual structure as seen in the GRE exam. This book has included the revised study content which was developed by the test makers. The book authors have also provided insight into some important chapters as well as test overview for students to better understand how to attempt the test.Kaplan New GRE Premier: This is a comprehensive book to study for Verbal and Quantitative Reasoning. This book covers a wide range of practice problems, test taking tactics and strategies.Princeton Review: Cracking the New GRE as the book title suggests, this book aims at acquainting students with the revised GRE syllabus and includes detailed answers for all questions.Gruber’s Complete GRE Guide: This book has ample problems on Quant but only a few on Verbal Reasoning.Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy Guides: This is another must-have GRE preparation book for all test takers. The book contains 8, well explained, strategy guides for the test attempt.GRE Preparation Books for QuantMcGraw-Hill’s Conquering the New GRE Math: This book is highly recommended for beginners who can start with the basics of GRE maths problems.Nova’s Math Bible: This book is best to practice some tough, challenging math problems.1,014 GRE Practice Questions: This book contains some easy problems to solve.Barron’s GRE Math Workbook: This book is ideal to practice Quant problems.Kaplan’s New GRE Math Workbook: This book proves to be ideal book to start with basic math problems for GRE. However, you should not rely too much on this one when studying problems of an advanced level.Princeton’s Math Workout for the New GRE: Out of all reference books for GRE, this offers the most extensive problem solving for Quant.GRE Preparation Books for VerbalKaplan’s New GRE Verbal Workbook: This is the best book for Verbal problems. This book surely scores a point over Barron’s book, in terms of how vocabulary is applied to different question types. It provides an additional set of practice problems with different difficulty levels.Barron’s GRE Verbal Workbook: This book contains an exhaustive list of words at the backside. The author also sheds light on reading and comprehension strategies.Princeton’s Verbal Workout for the New GRE: This book provides insight into some proven strategies but contains basic practice questions.There are many resources available to help you prepare for this test. Considering that the GRE exam can impact your life’s decisions, it makes sense to choose a test prep book from people who actually put the test together. A high GRE score is critical to set yourself on your way to gaining admission to the school of your choice.There is no single perfect way to prepare for such an exam. There is also no one perfect preparation course or book. Everyone has a different way of learning and retaining information. So make the right choices of material and courses depending on your goals early on, and you will be fine!







here are some of the best gre preparation books:Magoosh's Free GRE eBooksThe Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test, 3rd EditionOfficial GRE Verbal Reasoning Practice Questions & Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning Practice QuestionsBarron’s 6 GRE Practice TestsPracticing to Take the GRE General Test, 10th EditionThe Manhattan GRE Series (Books 1-8)GRE Analytical Writing: Solutions to Real Essay Topics (Books 1 & 2)Cracking the GRE, 2017 EditionNew GRE Premier 2011-2012 Book ReviewNew GRE with 8 Practice Test







To start, be sure to get ETS's Official Guide for GRE. For extra practice questions, ETS (the test maker) has a quant-only book and a verbal-only book, each with 200 questions. You'll also need a resource with some sort of instruction. The one that's best for you will be the one that best suits your learning style. We have a free GRE video course you might want to try. Finally,it's a good idea to have some kind of Study Plan. We have a free one here if you're interested - http://www.greenlighttestprep.co...Cheers,Brent







I found the "Reading Comprehension & Essays" book in the Manhattan set of 8 very helpful. Here is the link to the books: Manhattan Prep GRE Set of 8 Strategy Guides (Manhattan Prep GRE Strategy Guides): Manhattan Prep: 9781937707910: Amazon.com: Books Check the tips provided in the book and religiously follow it. The most important tip being "Write as many words as you can". Yes! This is very true.For the argument essay, it helps you get prepared so well that you could use the given framework for any essay. It lists down all the flaws that could possibly occur in an argument essay. Once you remember them and practice brainstorming a few topics with them, argument essays won't be a problem anymore.For the issue essay, it tells you what to do and what not to do (like how to take one side and support it, you need to add a rebuttal paragraph or not etc). It helps you understand how to structure your essay. Practice brainstorming! You should have brainstormed at least 25-30 questions in the ETS pool of essay questions. Some general tips (which worked for me): 1) Many words (but do not digress). You can give many similar examples if you have time.2) The question is very important. They all might look the same but there are minor changes in the questions. Make sure you address the question correctly. For example, if the question asks you "To what extent you support" , make sure you answer it that way - "I completely support...." etc. You get the point :). If this aspect is missed, you will get a straight -2 in your essay.3) First, begin with the Introduction, then first paragraph, then conclusion. After that, start adding paragraphs in the middle. This way your essay looks complete even if your time gets over halfway.4) Learn one quote every day. Quotes are really useful and will definitely add lot of value to your essay when used in Introduction or Conclusion. (Remember who wrote the quote as well!)5) Begin with a power sentence or a strong quote. For example. I got the question "Researchers should spend time on things that will help majority of the people only" (something like that). I began it like this "Why spend time doing research on automatic wheelchairs or Prosthetic limbs when handicapped people   are only 10% of the population?". This helps the essay begin with a serious perspective of this issue.6) Practice fast typing. 7) Examples Examples Examples!Good luck :)







GRE is an objective test. That holds true for most part of the test. But the Analytical writing section is subjective and it tests you on several things. AWA or Analysis of an Argument is nothing but an essay question where you are given an argument that might be or not be well reasoned. Your job is to invalidate or validate the argument and its individual components. If you have been writing exams that require detailed answers, you would find the AWA part familiar. It is generally clubbed with the verbal section with regard to preparation for GRE.It’s not a test of your diction. So, if you can use fancy words, this is not the place to exhibit that. AWA is a test of logical comprehension skills and articulation. If you think the author is wrong in his line of reasoning, you bring that out with your reasons. State them. And use this line of thought to extend your answer to a critique of the given argument.The AWA score is an indicator of your GRE verbal skills. A great application essay that looks like it’s straight out of the year’s best seller with a pathetic AWA score clearly tells the university that you have asked someone else to write your application essay. So, write your own essays. And prepare yourself for AWA.Here is a sample argument and question:The following appeared in the editorial section of a monthly business news magazine: “Most companies would agree that as the risk of physical injury occurring on the job increases, the wages paid to employees should also increase. Hence it makes financial sense for employers to make the workplace safer: they could thus reduce their payroll expenses and save money.”Discuss how well reasoned you find this argument. In your discussion be sure to analyze the line of reasoning and the use of evidence in the argument. For example, you may need to consider what questionable assumptions underlie the thinking and what alternative explanations or counterexamples might weaken the conclusion.You can also discuss what sort of evidence would strengthen or refute the argument, what changes in the argument would make it more logically sound, and what, if anything, would help you better evaluate its conclusion.The answer to this would be a detailed analysis of how the reasoning in the given argument is. If you think the given reasons are badly thought out, state that with your alternate reasons and conclude effectively. Do not go out of scope of the argument.







I recently (late April, 2015) took the GRE and got a score of 5/6 on the essay, which puts me in the 93% ile; I did better on this section than the other two, and that was almost disappointing because what I really wanted to improve on was the Quantitative section. In other words, you could say I was too successful. Just to rub it in, I did zero preparation for the writing section, compared to regular drilling for the quant section, spread out over weeks. My explanation for this is is not that I am some kind of gifted writer (I would have known that a long time ago if it had been true), but rather that I have a day job which involves writing. A lot of writing. I write about 3,000 words a day on average and on many days much, much more, and I read and re-read the texts I  produce. I've also written in a variety of forms. The only thing I do more voraciously than writing is reading. If the above doesn't apply to you, then you know what you have to do: find the time to do something that involves writing, writing and more writing. This in fact is my reflection on the GRE as a whole: you can't really study for it the way you would a microbiology final, but you can prepare by practicing in some form or another the skills which the test seeks to measure. I also read somewhere--it must have been on either the Magoosh blog or the Manhattan Prep website--that length is a determining factor in the GRE AWA section, so you will need to be comfortable with churning out a lot of text, fast (an additional consideration, maybe: make sure your typing speed is fast).  If you have a few months, find out what you need to improve on, start waking up really early in the mornings and do that for about an hour. Write letters to your friends, relatives and former lovers; write to your elected representatives, explaining your fears about zoning right and foreign policy; write to mentors; re-discover the art of the email. Speak to your friends and offer to help them read/revise their essays for work and study and life. Just be no-holds-barred about it, and do it.







Crowdsource the GRE Analytical Writing questions over at Quora itself (see Elizabeth Knopf's answer over at What are the best Harvard College study hacks?)Go to the pool of issue topics (over at http://www.ets.org/gre/revised_g... ) and post them all as questions on Quora [1]. They actually make for extremely good Quora questions.One could also do the same for the pool of argument topics (http://www.ets.org/gre/revised_g... ), but that's a bit more difficult.Then chances are that the answers will be so interesting that you'll actually remember them and be a lot more prepared for the analytical writing section on the GRE. :D[1] I already did most of the work though. ;) But not for the argument topics.You could also try it at http://www.reddit.com/r/truereddit and various other subreddits. Or at LessWrong.===Dec 21st edit: Well, turns out that I got a perfect score on the analytical writing even though I was too lazy to practice. I did implement the idea above but I didn't remember any of the answers (most of the question remain unanswered) Honestly - I think that writing numerous answers to Quora posts probably helped a lot.







Since the time limit for each essay is 30 minutes, I’ve found Pomodoro apps to be phenomenally useful. They let you work at a task for 25:00, then give you a 5:00 break. I can’t believe I didn’t think of this the first time I took the GRE. They’re all over the place; here is the one I use: Pomodairo Is a Pomodoro-Based Timer and Task Tracking Tool.The actual questions are available, so there’s no harm in familiarizing yourself with them: Introduction to the GRE Issue Task (For Test Takers) and Introduction to the GRE Argument Task (For Test Takers)Practice as much as you can, but don’t let your work go to waste: instead, save them for your own review, and ask others for feedback. You can use a blog, Reddit, Quora - anywhere online. I’m using quora; here’s where I posted my essay: Are scandals useful because they focus our attention on problems in ways that no speaker or reformer ever could?Sometimes it helps to get feedback from people you don’t know; it being the internet, they’re far less likely to spare your feelings.Eliminate distraction when you’re practicing. Chances are you won’t get to wear headphones, listen to music, or even see the light of day while you’re taking the test - so the sooner you get used to that environment, the better.Some of the other advice offered here is so spot-on, I’m going to paste it below, with thanks and apologies to their authors.From Subbrammanian Nochur Ganeswaran's answer to How can I start preparing for an analytical writing section of the GRE?The question is very important. They all might look the same but there are minor changes in the questions. Make sure you address the question correctly. For example, if the question asks you "To what extent you support" , make sure you answer it that way - "Icompletely support...." etc. You get the point :). If this aspect is missed, you will get a straight -2 in your essay. - EC: This never occurred to me, but now it helps me eliminate pride of authorship and distance myself from the product. It helps me to think of the person reading this not as an adversary or a judge, but as a customer who hopes to be pleased. What I’m writing isn’t necessarily *my* essay, but an answer to *their* question.First, begin with the Introduction, then first paragraph, then conclusion. After that, start adding paragraphs in the middle. This way your essay looks complete even if your time gets over halfway. EC: I love this. I still tend to write an outline first.Begin with a power sentence or a strong quote. YES! Journalists call this the lede — and with a piece this short, it’s true: if you nail the lede, you nail the story.Examples Examples Examples! EC: This is a great way to increase word count. I’m not at all sure what the statistics are on this, but narrative comes more naturally to me than argument does.







Unlike GRE, where you are asked to present your own arguments on the topic, GMAT AWA requires you to critique the given argument.As with other sections of GRE, vocabulary is important for analytical writing section as well. So, start strengthening your vocabulary if it is weak. Buy a good vocabulary book like VoLT or “Word Power Made Easy”. If you use apps, Install and regularly use mobile app VoLT. It uses innovative techniques such as funny stories, life events for quick and easy learning of words![1]Make a habit of reading newspaper everyday, focus on editorials and news that interest you. Observe the strength of reasoning of the article and how various for and against arguments are made and facts/evidence used to support them. Note the stated/unstated assumptions and what alternative explanations or counterexamples might weaken the conclusion. Also, identify any missing points that could strengthen or weaken the arguments. Write a critique for the articles you read using the observations mentioned above.The official website of GMAT provides a sample critique and a list of sample topics here. Initially, practice critiquing these topics without any time limit. Once you are comfortable, write within the time alloted for the section. Get your critiques reviewed online or offline by people who are good in this section and work on improving your weaknesses. Also, there is an official paid online writing practice tool called GMAT Write. Apart from these, ample online resources for analytical writing are available.Footnotes[1] VoLT







To thoseWho don’t have much time to prepare, such as those having a job (my case) or too much of college work.Preparing on their own, without any coaching. Without any hard books.Who are lazy. (Less euphemistically)Here’s my brief:(It’s quite a long read - TL; DR at the end)I was not able to do what they do, owing to the lack of time. These things should not let you down--“No time for Mock tests”: I did not take any (of the 3) mock tests fully - I only used to attempt both the Quant sections, review the mistakes, and ultimately end up preparing for Quant only till the day ended. I’d attempted Verbal only once (that too while triple-clicking and peeping at the meaning for each of the words that were unknown to me :P ) and gotten only 20 of 40 correct. This was before I’d started preparations, so I didn’t mind it much.LAST MINUTE Preparations: In spite of everyone telling me against it, I couldn’t leave the house in the morning without scrolling through my (mostly unprepared) word list, and the salient Quant mistakes notes.“Enough Sleep before the Day”: Didn’t have! :( Feeling underprepared, just twisting on the bed for hours without sleep!What I can make out nowAll that last minute anxiety, laziness towards Verbal, the last sleepless night, were all immaterial. For the most important thing is to be Calm & Concentrated during the exam. That’s all! :) Your score is already decided; a few months’ preparation would be puny in front of the all the Math/English that you’ve acquired during the past 20-25 years of your life.The post by Ananth Balasubramanian is the truest. Sincere thanks to him. :)[Here’s the link: GRE brief by Ananth Balasubramanian | Facebook]Suggested preparation material (i.e. the ones that I referred to)Manhattan 5 lb. (the hot favourite) for Quant - being a lover of Maths, I solved all of the problems and tests in this.ETS Official Guide - devour it completely! Burp!ETS Quant Practice and ETS Verbal Practice books - the best ones to understand the type & range of questions asked and to develop your own strategies.Magoosh Vocabulary Builder app - for the times when I used to take a break or while commuting or that eyes-wide-open-in-the-phone-light time before sleep.Quant tipsPractice all types of questions from all topics. Don’t even ignore simple Algebra questions like “1+3=?”, for there must be a trick involved. Even once would do, if you grasp things quickly.Then review the answers and keep jotting down the mistakes you commit. These should be helpful at the LAST MINUTE preparations. (For example, don’t ignore fractions and negative values in x2; double check DI questions; that new formula of ‘sample standard deviation’ etc.) If you have time, do review the answers to the correct ones too - there can be some wisdom provided there too, e.g. in Manhattan and ETS books.Verbal tipsPractise RC as much as you can. It’s not important that you finish the whole book of RC99. I did practise only about 15-20 essays from the books that I’ve mentioned. The important thing is to learn how to critically think about the questions and the choices. Every now and then, you’d have to reason with the choices like: “Hey! The passage does say that Apples are Bad. But it doesn’t state ‘specifically’ that they’re bad in taste. So eliminate.” Reasoning gets even more stringent than this. Learn to do it, and RC is your toy.Also, speed reading in RC helps a lot. Verbal sections might be found to be time-taking by you.SE and TC - Go with your instinct. Eliminate. Practice didn’t help me much I guess. But to be confident in the exam, do practise. :)AWA tipsI don’t think I’m the right person to speak about it. I only read a few samples from the ETS OG, on the day before D-day. I like writing, and so I could write quite much in the exam as well.All this I did within 10 days effectively. Lack of sleep didn’t bother me on the test day. (Might bother others, do sleep!)However, during preparations, I believe sleep matters - for whatever you learn needs the warmth of the pillow to be happy to stay in your brain... :)As much important are everyday chores and play - I used to play at least two games of Carrom everyday during my preparation. But DON’T do anything that brings that guilt in you of having wasted time.On Test DayHad slept only for 4 hours the night before, awoke at 6:30 AM, had only one banana for breakfast, and reached the venue at 7:30 AM. To my surprise, security check had already begun! :O Plus, to add to the torment, the ‘Prometric Intro video’ was playing on the TV there in loop! Grrr!AWA topics were good, had ample thoughts to write. Time is also enough for you to write 400-500 words.Happy to see the Quant section first! :D Got all the answers. However, it was trickier and lengthier than the second Quant section - so I knew that it was experimental.And most of the verbal passages I got were related to Science - Astronomy, Chemistry, Botany etc. Lucky, for I love to read about those. :)A Little Time Hack: Don’t press the Continue button when the section finishes. Take deep breaths. Prepare your mind to shift from Q to V or V to Q. Then press Continue and enjoy an official break of 60 more seconds ... :P (Had read this somewhere, so implemented.)Break time: Snickers. No wonder. (I think ETS should write this in the GRE conventions’ PDF now)All went smooth. And the score screen. My eyes went to the Quantitative section first: 170. Emotionless. Fine. Expected. Then they turned to Verbal section: 159. I added it to my Quant score and... “WTF! It’s becoming 329! Perhaps my brain is too tired to do simple addition now”, I’d said to myself. I did the Math again. And then again on the yellow rough sheet - that’s when it settled in!I smiled, filled in the Universities, and went straight to my friends waiting for a party. :)TL; DRKNOW the question types; PRACTISE until you start getting the answers correct; CHILL often: most importantly, during the exam.All the Best! :)[If anyone has any further queries, I'd be happy to help. :) ]——————————————————————————————————————————Update | May 22, 2016Admitted in Texas A&M University, College Station, to the M.Eng. in Construction Engineering & Management program!Happy as Hell!! :D——————————————————————————————————————————Update | June 30, 2017Working for one of the largest construction companies in the US!Happier!! :D :D







Dear GRE Aspirant!Two key phrases caught my attention in your question: “easiest ways” and “above 320”. Let me begin with the 2nd phrase since it is the more important among the two.An above 320 score is the popular benchmark for the success of your application – although there are many more factors to it. Going by the consensus, here is how a Good and a Great GRE score may look like.Good ScoreGreat ScoreAdditionally, why don’t we draw some inference from the statistics for admission to some top-notch colleges in the U.S.:The statistics shown above will convince you of the importance of securing section-wise efficient scores in the GRE. A 165 in Quant, coupled with a 155 in Verbal makes 320, but need not serve the best outcome with respect to your target university. Coming to the other phrase (i.e., easiest ways), you must understand that easy comes from comfort – and that comfort comes from two things: Ability & Alacrity. The better you are at something, the easier it feels. Again, the more prepared you are for something – the easier it becomes. All this philosophy is to help you understand the importance of Planning & Preparation. These two Ps make GRE easier to tame. We will come to this soon!Tame your VerbalLet’s begin with a few things to focus on for your Verbal section:Without discounting the importance of the 3500 high frequency words for GRE, you must also refer Barron’s 333. These are apparently the more frequent ones to occur.The Verbal section of the GRE is not about memory, word power or vocabulary. It is more about analogy, context, and comprehension. Hence, invest in learning the context for each word.Select a handful of words every week – and read at least 5 blogs/articles in context to each such word. This reinforces enough context around the word – making it almost unforgettable.The old strategies of relying on mnemonics, visual/audio, root words, theme based words, synonyms for context, etc. are still extremely effective and relevant. Utilize technology where you can, and rely on building your Verbal foundations using visual & associative methods of learning. Apps like WordBot, Flashcards, are extremely effective in this regard.Develop the habit of speed reading. Only 20% of a sentence is enough for context. This will help you achieve great speed and accuracy (since you wouldn’t be affected by random words in the sentence).Conquer QuantNow, a few hacks for the Quant section:Master Mental Math. A large subset of questions you encounter would be intense with lots of smaller problems leading to the final solution. Mastering Mental Math techniques like Vedic Math etc. will take away the weeds from the path.Practice and practice hard, with an intent to solve any question you encounter within 90 seconds. Some solutions could be shorter, say 25 seconds.Value your time, but do not rush. Read between the options available and often you will see through the traps GRE sets for all.Learn the art of IGMO, i.e., Intelligent Guessing and Moving On. GRE does not penalize a wrong answer. If the questions seem a bit wavering for you, resort to IGMO.Pick concepts and solve questions based on them. This will enable you to approach each question with an intent to build its back/spine. Once you strengthen the spine, you can take it all!Always try to build a Flow or Diagram for questions. Each question just lays out the facts in front of you. What can be confused by words, can be disseminated by figures!Learn to use the Online Calculator. It is an extremely underrated gift/lenience GRE offers. Most people end up solving square roots on paper. Act smarter and use a calculator. All of this is best done when you have a Plan and Preparation in place.How does Planning help?Peter Drucker said: “You can't manage what you can't measure”. A plan will help you stay focused and on the sprint. No plan is fool-proof, but a study plan will ensure you are aware of your progress. It will help you mobilize more resources when needed, and prioritize better.Take a look at the below figure to understand the same.Note that the above data corresponds to aspirants who had invested and dedicated themselves to a Tight Study plan and a Learning Tracker, in their quest for a 320+ score in GRE.Sample Study Plan Structure based on time period:1 month study plan structureAllocate at least 4 hours a day to prepare for GRE, diligently – without fail.Focus on the toughest problems and concepts.Compare your progress with peers and steer your preparation plan daily based on the same.Take as many timed and test-environment simulated tests as may be possible.Be clear of where you need help and reach to the Personal Coach without any remorse.3 months study plan structureEnforce Time Management strategies like 2 minute rules for every question.Work up stamina for 4 hour tests, by taking regular proctored and simulated tests.Focus a lot on deciphering and finding the way through long RCs and passages.Identify weak areas/concepts, and scheduling help sessions for the same.Build a diligent Word consumption strategy (e.g. WordBot, Flashcards, etc.).Stay well-versed with as many axioms and formulae pertaining to Geometry as possible.6 months study plan structureA more relaxed approach to building core concepts.Heavy focus on building reading habit.Periodicals and editorial sections of top/acclaimed journals are a must. Additionally, classic novels and books are welcome.A daily focus on assimilating 10-20 new words from the high frequency list of words.Weekly proctored tests to analyze weak areas.Building good arithmetic and quick math skills.Strong focus on practising Data Interpretation and Sentence Equivalence questions, given the time in hand to master the same.It is consistently quipped that 90 days should be a good period to enable your GRE prep. Having said that, you could just get double sure with a 180 day study plan!Nothing gets easier than following a time tested study plan, especially when someone else out there dedicates all their hours to build your excellence.Do not let too much information confuse your choices. Think logically, and you will see that sense prevails by following a stringent study plan.All the best!







GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination. It is held by Educational Testing Service (ETS) and the exam aims to measure verbal reasoning, quantitative reasoning, analytical writing skills. The GRE format changed in 2011 and is the maximum marks one can score in this revised format is 340 (170 in Quant and 170 in Verbal) and 6 in AWM. An examinee can miss one or more questions on a multiple-choice section  and still receive a perfect score of 170. Likewise, even if no question  is answered correctly, 130 is the lowest possible score.320 is a very good score and might fetch you an admit from the top schools. Although GRE is not the only parameter taken into account by Schools, it is one of the main parameters. Other factors are TOEFL/IELTS scores, undergrads GPA, internships and projects, work experience in the related field, Statement of Purporse(SOP), the Letters of Recommendation(LOR), extra curriculars.In general, to secure a 320+ score, you need to have a very good vocabulary, solid basic concepts in Mathematics and good writing skills.By good vocabulary I mean given a word and 3 different sentences making use of the same word in 3 different contexts, you should be able to differentiate and understand the difference in use of the words.For a good quant score, you should have very clear concepts when it comes to topics like Area, Volume, Indices, Data Interpretation. Each quantitative section consists of about 8 quantitative comparisons, 9  problem solving items, and 3 data interpretation questions.The AWM section will be a cake walk if you are well read and write in some form or the other. The analytical writing section consists of two different essays, an  "issue task" and an "argument task". The writing section is graded on a  scale of 0–6, in half-point increments.PRACTICE. PRACTICE. PRACTICE. This is the key to GRE success. The more you practice, the better you will be able to tackle questions in the given amount of time. Solve at least 6 full length tests to become used to the format, questions and time frame. ETS Powerprep tests will give you the closest idea of how much you will score in the actual test.All the best :-)







GRE consists of the following sections.Analytical Writing – 2 sections or tasks“Analyze	an issue”“Analyze	an argument”Verbal Reasoning – 2 sections25 questions/sectionQuantitative Reasoning – 2 sections25 questions/sectionIt is not much difficult to score in quant. Manhattan and Kalpan are the best sourcesYour verbal ability accounts for two thirds of your score; quantitativeability accounts for the rest. To do well in GRE, you must ace thelinguistic side of the test.How do you do that?Cultivatea habit of reading extensively. Any book (my personal recommendation are the classics), magazines – TheEconomist, Reader’s Digest.newspapers – NewYork Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Guardian(the best content lies in the editorials, and definitely not in the Page-3/entertainment section), websites and news sites (BBC has some of the finest content).Moving on to the Verbal Reasoning section. The finest tool you can equipyourself with, to crack this section is a vast vocabulary. Now, some of us are somehow blessed with a vast vocabulary, most of us,unfortunately, aren’t. That makes learning vocabulary our primary challenge in cracking GRE.How do I build my vocabulary?Extensive reading helps; but this is tedious method of getting there. There is extensive literature available on GRE specific vocabulary; various sources are give you this list. Kaplan’s and Barron’s have their long and condensed lists for you.Thebest of them all, however, is VocabSmith. (I must confess here that Irepresent VocabSmith). VocabSmith teaches you the words with meaning,usages and synonyms. VocabSmith uses the state-of-art RST algorithm,which is the most advanced learning methodology for vocabulary.Psychological research suggests that new words are learned best by repeated exposure to them, up to 4-7 times.VocabSmith’s RST algorithm governs your exposure to the words, in a frequency determined to be the most optimized, as suggested by proven psychological research. The algorithm further aligns this revision on the user’s difficulty in learning the words – you find a word difficult, no problem, VocabSmith revises it more for you. This way,VocabSmith ensures that your time spent on the tool maximizes your retention of the words, and associate with word usages.VocabSmith’s content has been prepared by veterans who’ve been in this industry for over 15 years. The list of words in each of its courses have been carefully chosen, so as to optimize your preparation for GRE. You could choose from the following three packages:GRE Complete – For the marathoners. This course contains the complete	GRE word list of 3500+ words.GRE High Frequency – For the medium-distance runners. This course contains a thoroughly-researched list of 1000+ words repeated often	in GREGRE Ultra High Frequency – For the sprinters. This course contains	400+ words that have appeared the most often in GRE.Itis available in both Android and iOS versions. Links are given below:iOS:	 https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/...Android:	https://play.google.com/store/ap...







I scored a 320+ with Q:170.GRE is a tricky exam which just can't be randomly answered. I started two months prior to the exam. The first thing I did was to research about the books that you will be reading from and here is my view about books:ETS GRE Official Book- This book is a must, it gives insights to what actual GRE will be and is the closest to GRE level. It contains all information about the exam, practice sets in verbal and Quants and AWA and two written tests. Apart from written tests, you get a CD which contains powerpep softwareManhattan 5LB- This is a comprehensive book, has exhaustive practice sets for RCs, SE and TC and gives you tips to study. I found Quants from Manhattan easy most of the time . It is a recommended book for verbalPrinceton Review- This book is for beginners, I would recommend this book only to those who haven't had a chance to verse well with English ,the level is easier than GRE for both Quants and verbal. Don't buy this book if you are well versed with Quants and Verbal.As far as my schedule goes, I had to manage it along with my undergrad( Engineering). I would give 4–5 days a week for verbal ,esp RCs. It's always better to work in group for verbal, discuss with your friends, or your GRE teacher if you have joined tutorials. Focus on vocab, but not too much ,GRE is no longer vocab centric , Manhattan 1000 words, Princeton 1409 and magoosh flash cards are enough for this. Start with your vocab early,read and understand words while you are free, or in your commute. TC and SE are scoring questions ,I focussed more on them rather than RCs.Coming to Quants, I just used Manhattan 5LB. Since I appeared for JEE Mains engineering entrance exam, which has much higher level mathematics, I didn't find the need to study for GRE, as Quants is more about your basic maths and alertness to tricky questions.Lastly, I gave a lot of mock exams, 6 Manhattan tests from their portal which costs around $40. 2 Princeton tests and 2 ETS Powerprep. I found Manhattan tests extremely helpful esp in Quants, on other hand I found Princeton verbal easy and Quants nearly same as GRE . Powerprep has two tests and both are of utmost importance, test 1 seems easier than test 2. Your final exams marks can be nearly +/-3 of Powerprep 2 obv not without exceptionsDon't over study, be calm and chilled for GRE, study regularly, converse with your friends in English or maybe play a vocab game. I used to play vocab game in magoosh with my friends by challenging them.All the best for your GRE!Protip: Anytime during exam if you feel that the level of questions has fallen down, realize that you performed bad in the previous section as GRE is adaptive. Rejoice if the level is same or harder :p







Thanks for A2A.For maths, the only way to score maximum is to practice as much as possible. But before practicing, get your concepts clear. Most of the syllabus of maths is of 10 standard and you might need to brush up few concepts. Revise the concepts and start practicing. Dedicate at-least 1/3 of your study time practicing math problems. Believe me if you will do this for at-least 1.5 hours everyday for 1 month, you will surely get above 165 in Maths.For Vocabulary, you need to have ample time. It cannot be done effectively in small time. You need to have a dedicated time of almost 3 months to build your vocabulary. There are some easy ways to do.Start with at-least 10 words a day. Don't by heart them. Rather try to understand the meaning of the word by relating it to something which you can remember easily. For example in GRE High Frequency words, you will find "Bolster" which means to strengthen or support (verb). I was having difficulty in remembering this word, so I connected Bolster with bolt. Now I knew the meaning of bolt from childhood and so I was able to remember bolster without any difficulty. Start practicing your remembered words. Try to write a story/article everyday and use (or at-least try to use) all your words that you have studied for GRE till date. Read good articles and news paper. I would suggest to start with editorial column of Hindu. Use http://vocabulary.com It is a very good website to build your vocabulary. You can make your own word lists and the system keeps track of your progress. There are plenty of in-build word lists which you can use. Overall, you need to do a lot of practice in both Math and Vocabulary part if you want 320+ score.I hope it helps.All the best. :)







There are two kinds of institutions offering online GRE courses in India.Type 1 : The international ones like1) Magoosh (80 to 100 USD which works out to Rs.5200 to Rs.6600)2) Kaplan (Rs. 35000 to Rs. 45000) Type 2: The Indian ones like1) GRE edge (Priced at around Rs.5000 to Rs.16000)2) Non specialists like Careerlauncher etc. who also charge somewhere in excess of Rs.6000There are two problems with both these types.1) The courses are not at all modular, try to cover every area from the basics and hence are prohibitively expensive. If you are already skilled in certain areas, this means an absolute waste of time and money. Why would you want to take a 30 hour program of which only 2 hrs are relevant to you?2) The course completion rates are pathetic (usually less than 10%). Why pay Rs.10000 for a course which you are never going to finish?Traditionally, the quality of these courses have always depended on the quality of the instructor. That is the reason why, at ChalkStreet, we find good quality private instructors (who have trained thousands of students with great success) and make highly modular courses and price it at an affordable level. Please check out the following courses, in case, you are preparing for the GRE.GRE Verbal Prep : A Definitive Guide | ChalkStreetGRE Prep: Crack the Quantitative Reasoning Section | ChalkStreetDisclosure: I am the cofounder of ChalkStreet -  but I do not mean this as a solicitation message but feel there is a genuine problem these courses are solving.All the very best for your GRE.Cheers!







Want to prepare for GRE? Here is a 4 step-easy process-Step 1: Get Started with Understanding the GRESo, as the first step, take the time to understand what the GRE will test.GRE Syllabus-1) A section called “Analytical Writing Ability” or AWA, which is basically just essay writingThis section contains two essays:a) “Analysis of an issue” in which you will be asked to write either for, or against a given topic.b) “Analysis of an argument” in which you will be given a situation that you need to argue against.2) Two sections of 35 minutes each for Quantitative Reasoning (fancy-speak for Maths)The four areas in which you will be tested are:a) Arithmeticb) Geometryc) Algebrad) Data Analysis3) Two sections of 30 minutes each for Verbal Reasoning (nothing but plain old English)a) Text Completion in which you will be given a sentence (or two) with one, two, or three blanks. From among the options, you need to pick the word(s) that correctly convey the intended meaning.b) Sentence Equivalence in which you will be given a sentence with one blank and you need to pick two (yes two!) options from among the six given. As you can imagine, the two words you pick should be synonymous, and fit in the blank.c) Reading Comprehension, in which you will be given a passage followed by a set of questions that you need to answer. The answer could either be explicitly stated in the passage (easy!) or implied through context (tough!).4) One section of either Maths or English that is not scoredGRE also gives you one extra section of either Maths or English. Thus, in total, you will have five sectioms.Step 2: Get the right GRE Study MaterialFollowing are the GRE study materials available to you:a) GRE Preparation on the internetWith the advent of online content and fast internet speeds, why would you want to stick to the “traditional” methods of pen and paper? Online GRE preparation gives you the flexibility to study on the go. Test preparation companies such as CrackVerbal offer you great options to study from the convenience of your home. See GRE Online course.b) GRE preparation booksIf you think the internet is a distraction and want to stick to a book, there are several options to choose from. You could either choose resources from a test preparation company like CrackVerbal, or stick to the official books published by ETS, as already discussed. CrackVerbal resources are:The CrackVerbal GRE Verbal GuideThe CrackVerbal GRE Quant Guidec) Free downloadable GRE preparation materialDo you know that Khan Academy has explanatory videos for many topics in the GRE Quantitative Reasoning section? (Trivia: Khan Academy was founded by Salman Khan, who has degrees from MIT and Harvard). You can find the videos here.You can also have a look at learning words through Learning Words the Fun Way – Flashcards. If you find them interesting, you can head over to Amazon to buy the entire set of 500 flashcards with quirky cartoons to help you quickly remember words and their meaning: CrackVerbal’s GRE Flashcards – pack of 500Step 3: Prepare for the GREYou just need a clear GRE study plan that is customized to meet your needs.  For many GRE aspirants, the study plan needs to be designed based on urgency to appear for the exam. For example, if you are planning to apply in August-September (fall intake) and it is already May, you would need an intensive three-month plan to be able to apply with a score.Step 4: Take the GREGRE practice testsBefore you go into the battlefield, you need to ensure that you have enough “match practice”.There is good news and bad news.The good news is that the GRE practice tests offered by ETS. are a fairly accurate indicator of where you will stand on the real test.The bad news is that you have only two full-length practice tests. Hence, after you take the tests, there is really no way to know if you are improving.You can always drop into your nearest CrackVerbal center if you want to take a free test, and have it evaluated by inhouse GRE experts.







The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General TestThe Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition is a book that comes directly from the very same people who set the test, making it ideal for just about anyone who's preparing for the GRE revised General Test. This official guide has practically everything that you could ever need when you're preparing for this exam. Whether you're preparing for this exam to earn your business school degree or for your graduation degree, this guide offers you all the much-sought-after information that you need to crack such an exam. Only ETS can present you with all that you need to know, much before you decide to give such an exam. Here, you gain insight as to how you can score well in such an exam. You are also supplied with countless questions that are based on the pattern of the exam. These questions can be used for practice, thus helping you sharpen your skills. The second edition of the book The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition has been published by Tata McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, in the year 2012 and can be purchased in paperback.Buy The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition Book Online at Low Prices in India







Thanks for A2A. You can start your learning from this. for more help you send me private message on Quora.The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General TestThe Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition is a book that comes directly from the very same people who set the test, making it ideal for just about anyone who's preparing for the GRE revised General Test. This official guide has practically everything that you could ever need when you're preparing for this exam. Whether you're preparing for this exam to earn your business school degree or for your graduation degree, this guide offers you all the much-sought-after information that you need to crack such an exam. Only ETS can present you with all that you need to know, much before you decide to give such an exam. Here, you gain insight as to how you can score well in such an exam. You are also supplied with countless questions that are based on the pattern of the exam. These questions can be used for practice, thus helping you sharpen your skills. The second edition of the book The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition has been published by Tata McGraw-Hill Publishing Company, in the year 2012 and can be purchased in paperback.Buy The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test with CD-ROM, 2nd Edition Book Online at Low Prices in IndiaHappy Learning !!!







There are lots of forums which will help you prepare for GRE. There are apps, websites and blogs like Magoosh, ChalkStreet, http://higheredu.com, Facebook groups and pages which will help you prepare for GRE. Any number of books won’t help you if you don’t practise. Taking up as many mock test as possible should be your main agenda while preparing for GRE. ETS lets you take up 2 mock tests before writing your GRE which almost helps you predict your actual GRE score accurately.GRE involves 3 sections which are namely analytical reasoning, quants and verbal. Indians or Asians in general don’t face much trouble when it comes to the quants section but a fair chunk of them find the verbal section quite challenging since they aren’t accustomed to the vocabulary.GRE is predominantly a vocabulary based test. Being thorough with the high frequency (300) words could make a huge difference in your GRE score. Even a few marks can cost you a seat in your dream university. The knowledge of your vocabulary is immensely tested in various questions like sentence correction, text completion and reading comprehension.Personally I would recommend ChalkStreet and Magoosh. They have dedicated Facebook groups to help GRE aspirants. ChalkStreet also offer free counselling for the aspirants and if you have any queries or doubts you can always ping them and their team of experts will clear your doubts immediately. They also have a discussions forum on their website and app where you can interact with fellow aspirants as well as their experts.ChalkStreet is a great app for android users and it is also available as a website which will help you ace the GRE. It is a website which has courses on diverse subjects at levels to suit the learner. Apart from courses the app/website also has a lot of articles related to higher education. It will not just help you improve your vocabulary immensely. It will also help you with the quants section. It has vast collection of articles and practise questions. There are videos which deal with only the high frequency words and the various shortcuts like etymology which you can use to remember the words and the in-context meaning. Magoosh is also very helpful. Magoosh comes in very handy when it comes to the vocabulary since the app helps you learn the high frequency words in a very structured manner and the user is usually eased into the complicated words and there are ways to check your progress.Online content is the best since you can just glance through it on the go whenever you’re stuck in traffic, travelling or eating. I am all for it







The best prep material in my opinion is the one that is best made use of:Before I get to the nitty gritty of preparation, its extremely important to understand that the GRE isn't the be all and end all of the grad school admission process. The main exam is on a computer and staring at a computer for 5 or more long hours is quite hard to do. Get used to such a test scenario over your prep time. I strongly advocate an online course like Magoosh where everything you'll read will be off a screen rather than a book-That's much more easier to do and is described as a crutch in prep time because its easy to scribble on and easier to the eye. Trust me a passage on screen is much more arduous to read and process than one in a book.And face it books are not well updated and are really easy to breeze through. Manhattan being an exception. I personally used Magoosh, recommended it to everyone who ever uttered the letters G,R and E in a sentence there after. They've got great support staff that are quick to respond to queries and every solution has a video solution and also links you up to related lessons on the concept.  Use their trial period for free it'll be a nice test drive to try all their features . Their score projection pie charts really motivate you to come study everyday- Consistency is key during prep time.Also use Magoosh preferably during the same hours of the day you'd have your GRE appointment. The mind tunes itself to those hours for studying and staring into a bright screen. The GRE is more of an endurance test than one that tests intelligence.The Magoosh blog is free for everybody i.e users and non-users. It compliments the magoosh material and has many many tips that can fine tune your preparation. Chris from Magoosh has videos called vocabulary wednesdays - free on  the magoosh you tube channel- highly recommend it.Talking about vocab keep a notebook handy to write down new words everyday you encounter on Magoosh- this means every word, the right and wrong answers on every sentence based question. skim through it every night before bedtime. The notebook should have meanings paraphrased for your benefit not what Page on wordnik.com or Dictionary.com say directly. Magoosh has an app for android and iOS not restricting your prep time to just indoors. Never used the app and wouldn't recommend anything but a desktop for prep.Hope this helps.Cheers,Anirudh Ashok







None. Please don't waste your money on buying full online courses, buy only online tests.The following online tests will most resemble the actual GRE test, in order of importance :ETS PowerPrep 2(download it)Manhattan GREKaplan GREPrinceton GREIf you insist on taking an online course, here's what I got on the web:The 4 Best Online GRE Prep Courses of 2017 - Reviews.comEven the Magoosh course has been helpful to a few of my friends :Magoosh Online GRE PrepIf you are preparing for the GRE, checkout my other answer for a 3 week preparation plan from scratch :Suhail Barot's answer to How should I plan my preparation for the GRE?Best of luck!







Well, that must be PrepScholar.You know, it’s a reputed online GRE institution helping out thousands of students for many years.They have experienced instructors who will always be looking over your shoulder and steer you to the right path.Not just that, PrepScholar offers many other exclusive features likeUnderstanding Individual Needs: When you reach out to PrepScholar, they would first listen to your purposes and the reason why you’re taking GRE course. And if you are not sure of, then they would offer you the needed help.Diagnostic Your Current Level: In this step, they would provided you with 60 question identify your weak zones.Customized Lessons: Once they are done with figuring out your strength and weakness, they would come up with a more personalized lesson plan that suits your needs.Video Lessons: At times you will have to come across some difficult lessons. And to help do away with them, PrepScholar will provide you video lessons crafted by Harvard PhDs.Track Your Progress: And most importantly, they would keep an eye on your progress. If you get stuck with a lesson or math, they would help get it solved asap.An on top of all this, PrepScholar provides a solid guarantee. If your score doesn’t improve, they would refund your money right away.Yes, you read it right. PrepScholar will give your money back if things don’t work out well.So just go ahead and give it shot with confidence.You will surely find it worth opting for….Hope it helpsCheers……







Do not focus only on specific platforms like Kaplan or Princeton Review. There are several other online portals for GRE preparation such as Khanacademy, EduSaathi, etc.All the online courses will offer you the same material essentially. It is up to you to fix a schedule, follow it, and prepare smartly. In short, your success will depend not on the test series you buy, but on your grasp, hard work and dedication only.I highly recommend you to have a look at the video lectures on the YouTube channel of EduSaathi. They are totally FREE and accessible 24x7, and as many times as you want. Also stay tuned to their Facebook page as they keep on posting useful stuff.







There are 2 types which can be categorised:FREE : ETS powerprep software ,it is the best one as the range it gives is the nearest to the actual GRE. (+/- 5 points)PAID : Manhattan review 6 test series ,the average of the 6 tests. ( + / - 2 points )NOTE: Practicing alone would not be of much help. What would matter is that one works upon their weak areas too .Moreover there is a tendency to skip AWA during practice sessions. Refrain from that as a good AWA score always is an add on to a good GRE score.







Every test preparation courses has it’s own way of creating GRE courses. Invest Wisely when it comes to preparing for any test.Here are my thoughts of good investment when it comes to GRE Preparation:One-on-one tutors are quite expensive, but they are still worth it (if you have all the available finances). However, you can do a cheaper version of it -SELF STUDY. You can always study by yourself. Borrow books from your friends, search for materials in the internet that are provided for free.All it takes is Time and Dedication. :)Search for free practice test to check the quality before investing your money.Get to know the books by reading reviews.Learn how to manage your time. A proper time table of activities would be suitable to determine which time you’d do fun things, and which time you are supposed to study. :)Find free Vocabulary Program specifically for GRE words.Hope this helps!







We’ve written a helpful blogpost on GRE Self-Prep for complete details on how to plan to give your exam and prepare adequately, complete with resource links.Check it out at www.virtualcounsellor.in or email us at virtualcounsellorhelp@gmail.com.







As per Frequently Asked Questions at ETS Home ...GRE scores are valid for five years after the testing year in which you tested (July 1–June 30). Currently, scores earned from July 1, 2010, to the present are available.







The GRE score is valid for 5 years, but that said I highly recommend people to submit GRE scores that are no older than 2 years.Why? Simple, what you knew 5 years ago isn't valid for what you know now. Your determination 5 years ago cannot be a yardstick for what you are doing right now and have done in this year.That is why universities prefer scores that are no older than 2 years. Also you can delete/remove your past GRE scores, if you dont want it to show in your profile. But the deleted score notification is always posted on your ETS profile and universities can always check it and even ask you about the same. So keep complete transparency and dont take GRE for granted.Make sure to check out our app VOLT on Google play store. It now has over 1.1 lakh downloads and has amazing cool features that will make your verbal section easy and interestingVoLT: Vocabulary Learning Technique , helps student prepare for Verbal and Vocabulary section of competitive exam.Link for download VoLT - Vocabulary Learning - Android Apps on Google Play







Graduate Record Examination (GRE) has always been associated with graduate programs leading to masters and Ph.D. degrees. The recent advancements in the world of test taking or entrance test, the GRE now paves the way for you to apply for an MBA as well. The worlds top business schools view GRE Scores equally with other graduate admission test. It provides schools with an excellent assessment of the skills you need to succeed in MBA and specialized masters degree programs.Accepting GRE score also works in favor of the business schools as they are able to diversify their applicant pool with more candidates applying from varied streams unlike before. The GRE scores too, like the GMAT, are valid for a period of five years.Top Business Schools Accepting GRE Scores







Hi there !For tests taken on or after July 1, 2016, scores are reportable for five years following your test date. For example, scores for a test taken on July 3, 2017, are reportable through July 2, 2022.For tests taken prior to July 1, 2016, scores are reportable for five years following the testing year in which you tested (July 1– June 30). For example, scores for a test taken on May 15, 2015, are reportable through June 30, 2020. GRE scores earned prior to July 2012 are no longer reportable.GRE scores earned in July 2012 are reportable until June 30, 2018.All the best !







For tests taken on or after July 1, 2016, scores are reportable for five years following your test date. For example, scores for a test taken on July 3, 2017, are reportable through July 2, 2022.NOTE: It takes approximately five business days to process requests to send GRE scores. If you plan to send scores and the date at which your scores are no longer reportable is approaching, allow enough time for processing or your scores may not be sent.







According to the most recent information on the GRE website, your graduate record examination (GRE) test score is valid for five years after you took the test. Currently, test scores earned from November 1, 2010, to the present, are still valid.You can find more information like this on the Frequently Asked Questions page of the GRE website.







Hi! I have taken the General GRE exam in March 2017 and scored 329/340 with 163 in Verbal and 166 in Quantitative. I will tell you my experience and in general some tips as to how to fare well on the exam. Nevertheless, preparation strategies vary from person to person.If you want to get an idea as to where you stand even before you start your preparation, I would suggest you to take a free mock test online. I would recommend the one offered by Galvanize. It's not a full test, but has one Verbal section and one Quantitative section. You just need to spend an hour and you would get an idea when you check your scores as to where you made mistakes and which concepts you need to learn better. This, in my opinion, embarks your preparation for GRE!The most important thing to do is to first book your test date. Until and unless your test date is booked, you would not get the requisite motivation to start your preparation. That was what I did. I first scheduled my test and then took the mock to see where I stood. I scored 302/340 in the mock test. I was not at all prepared. So the results were as expected. I found out the concepts I needed to study and started working on them.Talking about how much time you need to invest preparing for the test, it is totally dependent on what you do. If you are an engineering student or a mathematics student or someone taking math courses and constantly staying in touch with the subject, I assure you that Quantitative section would be a cakewalk! At the same time, I would like to emphasize that ETS has raised the bars for Quantitative section and it is not as trivial as it once seemed to be (I'm not generalizing anything here; whatever I say is what I opine). If you want to start from scratch and study everything throughly, I'd highly recommend enrolling for some online GRE coaching.You can subscribe for Magoosh as it would prep you up for the toughest questions - questions that are too tough that ETS might not consider asking them- which is a very good thing as you would find the actual test pretty easy! You can take a subscription for three months or six months depending on what is ideal for you and depending on when you have scheduled your test. Do not think of it as a waste of money because in the worst case scenario where you do bad in your first attempt, you might end up wasting more money for your second attempt! So it's okay to spend some money when necessary because it's worth it. :)Practice all the material religiously, and work everyday. Make sure you have the ETS official book with you and also download the Powerprep software from ETS website. Set a target, say, that you would complete your first round of preparation in a month and then take the first test on the Powerprep software. Depending on your score, you would know where you stand. You can then improve your score by focusing more on areas where you lost marks. Take the second test one week before your actual test date after you think you're fully prepared. That test is relatively tougher than the first one. Spend the last one week practicing rigorously.VerbalVocabulary plays a crucial role in Verbal section, but, remember that it is not everything. It contributes to about 20% of your score on verbal section. The most important aspect is practicing comprehensions and text completions. GRE is an exam which you can excel by practicing more and more problems! That's the key to scoring high on GRE. So don't spend too much time simply learning words. Instead, practice more questions and continue learning words. This approach is more helpful.QuantitativeThe key to scoring high on quantitative is practice and practice and practice! Also, remember that the exam would put you under a time pressure. So practice with time and try to do as many questions as you can with minimum number of mistakes. Every question is worth the same score. So focus more on getting questions right than on somehow answering all the questions.Analytical WritingIt would suffice to score above 3.5 in this section, but I would suggest you to spend some time and get a better score. It's not all about getting a reasonable score but it's about getting a decent and deserving score. If you're good at essay writing and arguments, you would hardly need to spend any time for this section. Otherwise, you need to practice writing and the more you practice, the better you get at it. ETS asks questions only from the given pool of essays. So make sure to check them out. I have practiced several topics from the pool of essays and scored 5/6 in this section.There are websites that have collections of GRE preparation books including Kaplan, Baron's, Manhattan, Princeton and old ETS books. So try to get them and practice as much as you can! :)Finally, I would say practice makes your GRE score perfect! I mean it literally, a perfect score of 340 is attainable with practice. :)All the best!PS: I have forgotten to mention this. In order to improve vocabulary on a long-term basis, do study Word Power Made Easy by Nornan Lewis. But this book doesn't cover several GRE words! So please download the app called “Painless GRE”. It has around 4000 words. Once you're done learning them, most of your vocabulary prep is done! :)







Be sure to register early for your GRE exam so that there is enough time to process any necessary paperwork, and so that you can take the exam at the center of your choice and at your desired time and date. You can register late by paying a fee of $25. However, be sure to take the exam at a date which will enable ETS to send your score report to the school(s) of your choice before the school application deadline. When you register for the GRE, make double sure that you print and provide your name EXACTLY as it appears on your identification document(s).For the paper-based GRE revised General Test, you can register by mail or online. The paper-based exam is offered in areas of the world where the computer-based version of the exam is not available. To register Online, use the Online Registration System. To register by mail, and for additional registration information, visit the ETS Registration and Downloads page on the ETS website.







Thanks for the A2A!Here are some strategies I followed while preparing for the GRE. Keep them in mind as you plan your own preparation.Quants:The topics the questions are based on are simple, it is the questions that are tricky.The GRE mentions certain instructions - read the question carefully, figures are not drawn to scale, etc - which seem fairly obvious. However, since we’re always in a hurry to solve the sum and move on, we tend to make silly mistakes, which will cost us that easy extra point in the exam.One method I personally found useful to fix this was using Manhattan’s 8 Strategy guides. These books actually detail a majority of the types of tricks the GRE will use to trick you. Compiling a list of tricks that I always seemed to fall for and revising them before every test I gave, helped keep me aware of the possible tricks I could encounter as soon as I saw a sum, thus improving my accuracy.Aim to maximize your quants score as far as possible. Practice a lot, the Manhattan 5 lb. book has a lot of great sums. Solve from the ETS Official books without fail.Verbal:Start the word lists as early as possible, ideally much before you start actual prep even. Use the time you take to travel to and from college or work to do these words. The word lists I did were Magoosh (excluding advanced), Manhattan and Barrons 1100.Another thing to practice beforehand is reading. GRE Reading Comprehensions are dreaded by all. The language can be quite tough and attempting to understand it can drain your mental energy. Couple that with long, winding passages? You just might fall asleep in the middle of the RC itself. Train yourself not only to read long passages and but to read those passages with the same attentiveness throughout. Building this stamina will help you on test day, when sitting for nearly four hours straight will already be a drain on your energy.For the individual Verbal question types, the only mantra is practice, practice and practice. But don’t just blindly solve 100 questions at a go, as tempting as that may be. Solve sets of 20 questions of a particular question type, note down the mistakes made and reflect on what could be done to rectify it. Note down these strategies and read through them from time to time, especially emphasizing on mistakes that you make often.ETS Official books, Manhattan 5 lb, Princeton’s 1014 GRE Questions (for TCs and SEs) and Verbal Grail (for RCs) were some of the books I used. Many people swear by Word Power Made Easy for building language as well, although I’ve never used it. A lot of the articles on the Magoosh blog are also helpful in devising strategies to solve particular question types.Tests:Give as many tests as you can. The GRE is a long exam. Therefore, it is necessary to build up the stamina to maintain your focus throughout the exam.AWA:AWA was a last moment thing for me. Went through the Manhattan AWA Strategy Guide and picked up a few pointers, which I then applied on exam day.Practice a few essays beforehand. You should make sure that you are able to complete them while ensuring that they were also of appropriate length.Lastly, finding a group of friends or a buddy at work who is giving the GRE as well is definitely a boon. A bunch of my friends gave the GRE at the same time as I did and discussing words from time to time, sharing resources and solving each others doubts definitely helped sharpen my own skills.If you prefer a week by week plan, check out this answer :Suhail Barot's answer to How should I prepare for GRE in one month to score 320 +?Hope this helps :)







Agreed, GRE is a tough nut to crack, but only when you lack proper planning, strategy and discipline. With a little planning and foresight, it will suddenly start looking orderly, logical and attainable. GRE preparation is a rigorous mental workout, which builds your accuracy, timing and confidence after consistent practice. One needs to train his/her mind to ingrain the concepts, techniques and strategies that are essential to crack GRE, and be able to invoke them during the exam. Also, preparation necessitates one to strike a right balance between study and breaks. Breaks serve as revitalizers to escape from unexciting routine of daily preparation, and if not taken in time, can lead to information overload and eventual burnout.Reaching a score plateau can be quiet a frustrating reality. The key is to keep pressing forward with increased positivity, better focus and fine-tuning your study plan to make the most of it. The idea is to reach the Peak after having worked on your accuracy, timing yourself appropriately and scoring high in practice tests. Once your score hits a point you have set your mind on, it is the most opportune moment to take GRE.You may want to take care of these little things to ensure success in the GRE:Your brain has a level of saturation beyond which its efficiency starts reducing. Take regular breaks and let your brain refresh and recharge itself. Once that happens, you will be able to bounce back and achieve much more.Set a right rhythm for GRE. Just cramming and practicing like a maniac will not work. You need to follow a steady strategy of learning-understanding-analysing-practicing-taking mock test followed by a well-deserved break.Monitor your progress in terms of your timing, accuracy and score continuously.Consistent practice is always better than last minute rigors. HOW TO CRACK GREMake a concrete, but realistic study plan and try to stick to it. It will put you in the right trajectory of discipline, where you will start to take your study as seriously as you take your dentist’s appointment after an excruciating toothache. HOW TO CRACK GREWhile you are self-motivated to study the subjects you are good at, you need to bury your head like the proverbial ostrich and practice the subjects you are not so fond of. Facing and overcoming your weak areas will make you better equipped and more confident.Over exertion and last minute cramming can prove detrimental to your scores. Make sure you are not stressed out, get enough sleep and eat healthy food before the exam day. HOW TO CRACK GREFollowing a routine over a period of time, taking practice tests at exactly the same time as your GRE slot does a lot of good to not only set your biological clock, but also gives you a subconscious training for taking the GRE.Divide your time assiduously. Do not keep reading one subject continuously. It is wise to alternate between two or different subjects to keep your interest level alive.GRE score is not a measurement of your intelligence, but is an indicator of how well planned, dedicated and positive you are as a person. Do not let GRE blues knock you down. Take it with a composed and forward looking approach.For more information on GRE/TOEFL/IELTS/GMAT, please visithttp://www.collegepond.com/resou...MS in US 2019 || Collegepond







Thanks for A2A.Please follow the below the steps to apply for GRE-Go to https://www.ets.org/gre and click on Register Now at the left bottom of the screen.You will be taken to login window, select Create or Login to your ETS Account nowCreate your account using your email-id and choose your password.Once done you will be redirected to your dashboardSelect Register/Find Test Centres, DatesSelect your test centers, dates accordingly and proceed with the payment.Please use a credit card for payment.Hope this helps. For any further information, please feel free to reach out to me.Cheers!!-Kush..







GRE PREPARATION STRATEGYTry to follow this Chronological GRE Preparation Strategy~First of all take a Diagnostic Test, available at ETS. Analyse your Scores.This Score will give you an idea of your strengths and shortcomings. You should plan and devote time for your GRE preparations accordingly.The GRE Quant tests your basic level of Maths, Specially for Engineering students. You should aim for a full score 170 in Quantitative section. This would help in increasing your overall score.The main area of Concentration is the Vocabulary and RC in the Verbal section.You should Download these two Apps for your iOS/Android device- Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flashcards & Barron's 1100 Words. These are well organised Apps for GRE Vocab Building.An average student needs 300 hours of GRE Preparation to aim for 300+ Scores (I'm not considering the Super Kids who write GRE in 15/20/30 Days & get 320+ Scores). You should calculate you time that can be spared in Weekdays/Weekends for GRE prep. This way you can estimate your tentative date for GRE Exam. Generally 3–4 months time is enough for Preparation.Spare another 20–30 hours for writing Full-length tests, in the last week of Preparations.Some Important points to Consider before GRE PreparationsYou should do initial research for Specific MS programs. Shortlist Universities in Ambitious & Safe categories. Check their required GRE scores & plan your Preparations accordingly.Start your GRE Prep at least 8–9 months before the start of Application window. So even if you don't get your desired score, then also you have enough time to rewrite it.By the time of your GRE exam you should be in a position to shortlist the Four Universities where you are going to send your Official GRE score for Free. Else you will land up shelling extra $ for sending your Official score.Remember you need another Substantial time to complete the other parts of Application like Transcripts, SOP, LOR etc.If you are looking for Financial Aids & Scholarships then you should be able to apply at the earliest (Preferably when the Application Window opens). Earlier applications gives you a lot of Funding opportunities & it's it's for you to take decisions in picking up the best admits (College Reputation & the Financial Aids).I would Not suggest you to have a Counselor before your GRE scores. However you can join a GRE Coaching (Weekend/Online) if needed.“Don't Practice until you get it Right; Practice until you can't get it Wrong !”All the Best. Keep Rocking!~ Dr SSR.







GRE PREPARATION STRATEGYTry to follow this Chronological GRE Preparation Strategy~First of all take a Diagnostic Test, available at ETS. Analyse your Scores.This Score will give you an idea of your strengths and shortcomings. You should plan and devote time for your GRE preparations accordingly.The GRE Quant tests your basic level of Maths, Specially for Engineering students. You should aim for a full score 170 in Quantitative section. This would help in increasing your overall score.The main area of Concentration is the Vocabulary and RC in the Verbal section.You should Download these two Apps for your iOS/Android device- Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flashcards & Barron's 1100 Words. These are well organised Apps for GRE Vocab Building.An average student needs 300 hours of GRE Preparation to aim for 300+ Scores (I'm not considering the Super Kids who write GRE in 15/20/30 Days & get 320+ Scores). You should calculate you time that can be spared in Weekdays/Weekends for GRE prep. This way you can estimate your tentative date for GRE Exam. Generally 3–4 months time is enough for Preparation.Spare another 20–30 hours for writing Full-length tests, in the last week of Preparations.Some Important points to Consider before GRE PreparationsYou should do initial research for Specific MS programs. Shortlist Universities in Ambitious & Safe categories. Check their required GRE scores & plan your Preparations accordingly.Start your GRE Prep at least 8–9 months before the start of Application window. So even if you don't get your desired score, then also you have enough time to rewrite it.By the time of your GRE exam you should be in a position to shortlist the Four Universities where you are going to send your Official GRE score for Free. Else you will land up shelling extra $ for sending your Official score.Remember you need another Substantial time to complete the other parts of Application like Transcripts, SOP, LOR etc.If you are looking for Financial Aids & Scholarships then you should be able to apply at the earliest (Preferably when the Application Window opens). Earlier applications gives you a lot of Funding opportunities & it's it's for you to take decisions in picking up the best admits (College Reputation & the Financial Aids).I would Not suggest you to have a Counselor before your GRE scores. However you can join a GRE Coaching (Weekend/Online) if needed.“Don't Practice until you get it Right; Practice until you can't get it Wrong !”All the Best. Keep Rocking!~ Dr SSR.







The best way to prepare for the GRE if you are a beginner is to start well in advance. The word beginner is again relative. What you may consider as something very basic may not be for someone else.Before starting your preparation, you must do a SWOT analysis. Assess your strengths and weaknesses so that it will be easier for you to focus more on the topics you aren’t very comfortable with. Generally people are comfortable with the quants section and tend to struggle with the Quants section. If you haven’t booked a date for your exam yet, it is advisable to take the exam after 6 months of dedicated preparation.You need to know the following about the GRE exam before you start your preparation.The GRE exam has 3 sections the analytical writing section, the verbal section and the quants section.The analytical writing section doesn’t contribute to your GRE score so you needn’t break your head about it.The Quants and verbal section are for 170 marks each. The quants is the scoring section and you should ideally be looking to get 170/170 in this section. Anything more than 160 is a great score when it comes to verbal.You are expected to answer 20 questions in 30 minutes in each of these sections.Something that most of the people don’t know is that the GRE is actually only for 80 marks but the marks are awarded out of 320 so that we don’t assume that a person who scores a 40 is only half as good as a person who scores 80 so the scores are given on a scale of 260–340.Getting to the hardest part of it all PREPARATION:You needn’t prepare for hours together to crack the GRE.Most people find the Quants section easy so you should just be trying to brush up on your basic concepts. I would suggest you make your concepts concrete and don’t get carried away in cramming as many formulas as possible. Once you’re confident enough try taking up a mock test and see where you stand, analyze your mistakes and then go back to those topics and make sure that there isn’t an Achilles heel. Spend as little time as possible preparing for Quants and I don’t think it will take up a lot of time. 1 hour a day for a month and you should be good to go.The dicey section is the verbal section and it will definitely be the make or mar factor in your GRE since you may not be accustomed to the language used. The best way to prepare for the verbal section is to READ. The verbal section is predominantly vocabulary based and being thorough with vocabulary might just make the difference between you getting into an average institute or premier institute abroad.Please try to stick to the following schedule:Spend two hours each day for the verbal section of GRE and one hour for the Quants section.Make sure that your preparation doesn't take a back seat during the weekends or due to some occasion like a friend's birthday.First 10 days:1. Start reading a minimum of 20 pages of content every day. You can start by reading the sports column of the newspaper.2. Subscribe to blogs related to topics you find interesting. I recommend you join medium.com.3. Subscribe to a word a day and try to use the word as much as you can.4. Install Magoosh vocabulary builder from play store on your phone and complete learning the words from all the 7 basic levels and 5 intermediate levels. Keep revising what you have learned before you go on to learn new words.5. Revise all the concepts that you can be tested on in the GRE and solve as many problems as you can. ( Don't approach the problems using formulae. Try a logical approach unless you can solve it faster using a formula.)Note: Whenever you learn a word please try to learn all the possible meanings of the word with the context. Also, learn the antonyms and usage for each word.Reading shouldn't be considered as part of the 2 hours you spend every day for the verbal section.By the end of the first month, you should have:1. Increased the number of pages you read every day to 50.2.You should be thorough with Barron's 800.Please don't try to memorize words. Try to come up with foolproof methods to remember the meanings of the words.3. Solved all possible questions from the quants section, taken up mock tests, analyzed them, revised the concepts where you went wrong and solved a few more sums from the topics you are weak at.The MOCK LOOP with the ERROR LOG:Once you have covered all the bases it is important to put your skills to test. The ETS lets you take up two mock tests before your actual exam. Make sure that you utilize it since the scores that you get in these tests are very accurate i.e., if you take up the actual GRE exam your scores will only vary by 3 marks on either side of the score you obtained in the Mock test.Taking up the mock test at the right point of time is very important:If you take it up without properly preparing the scores that you secure might demotivate you. Ensure that you cover all the concepts and practice them time and again before giving the mock test. This will help you BOOST YOUR CONFIDENCE before the exam.Just taking the mocks won’t help you improve or maximize your scores unless you analyze the test in detail and figure out where you have gone wrong.Document your errors. Cover the concepts again and try to solve the same problem as well as other problems from the same topic until you are very confident that you will get it spot on in the examination.Few suggestions:Install the following apps on your Android phone1. Illustrate - The Video Dictionary. This application is free, and is available on various platforms, including the Apple App Store, Google Play Store, and soon, the Windows Phone Store.2. Pocket GRE Math.3. PrepGame.4. Magoosh vocabulary builder. (must have)5. Magoosh GRE Flashcards. (must have)Try conversing only in English with your friends and family. It's okay to make mistakes, that's how you will learn. It will also help you with your IELTS.Try writing: Try to summarize whatever you've have read each day and get it checked by an expert.Try watching a lot of English movies and tv shows with subtitles. You'll slowly improve your speaking and writing skills.A few of the following tips may come in handy:The GRE is a timed test: If we had all the time we need, then every one of us would get the perfect score on the GRE. But the GRE is a timed test, so it is important to not only be accurate but also quick when it comes to answering the questions. So when preparing for the GRE, time yourself. You are expected to answer 20 questions in 30 mins both in the Verbal and the Quants section. Attempt a lot of mock tests it will help you a lot.Be aware of the wrong answers:The wrong answers generally tend to fall under certain categories which will help you eliminate the wrong choices when it comes to the GRE verbal reasoning section or reading comprehensions.The choices are most probably wrong if they:Assume too muchAre beyond the scope of the passageAre too extremeAre true but involve outside knowledgeAre too specific/too broadSave the worst for the last:They usually say save the best for the last but it doesn’t hold good when it comes to the competitive exams like GRE. You will end up wasting time if you attempt the unfamiliar questions. If you find a question complex, it is better to leave it for the time being and improve your score by answering the questions related to the easier and familiar questions.Utilize the scratch pad:Take short notes while reading the comprehension passage in the space allotted. Eliminate the unnecessary details and words which are just present to throw you off.The following are a few tips that might come in handy when it comes to the reading comprehension but they might also be applied to any question in the verbal section.DUMB them down:Questions on reading comprehension passages have the most gray area when compared to any other type of question in the GRE.Avoid skimming through the questions without understanding what is specifically being asked. If you find a question or choice confusing rephrase the question in your one words.Be on the look out for concessions:In many cases, the author may have a strong voice towards a certain topic or aspect in the passages. The author might have a strong opinion towards certain aspects in a passage and argue for it throughout the passage but then the author might suddenly stop doing so and make subtle or drastic concessions to the opposing side which will weaken the arguments that were previously made in the reading comprehension passage. Make sure that you aren’t thrown by such concessions.Make use of the context:If the question asked is related to a specific line in the reading comprehension passage, it won’t help if you just go back and read the sentence. The thumb rule is to read at least one sentence before and after the aforementioned line.Zero in on the idea behind the longer passages:Majority of the reading comprehension passages that you will come across while taking the GRE will be short but on the off chance that you encounter one or two longer ones, it is advisable to focus more on the first and last paragraphs of the passage and find the big picture of the passage, since time is of the essence.Find the tone of the passage:The tone of the passage can be found using the choice of words or the turn of phrases used by the author. Even if the tone appears to be neutral, assume that it is complex and look for the tone. You can arrive at the tone by observing the diction or by asking the following questions:Does the author feel positively or negatively about a certain topic?What aspect of the topic does the author criticize?What concerns does the author raise through the passage?Which adverbs and adjectives does the author use to voice his opinion?Last but not the leastWatch your diet: An important factor which most students ignore to their detriment is their health and diet. This is very important both during your preparation and while taking the test. Ensure that you stick to a nutritious diet since you will need a lot of energy during your preparation. It is a good thing to avoid eating outside especially junk food, during your preparatory phase. Also, refrain from drinking, partying and taking recreational drugs a week or two before the Test day.P.S. If you are looking for study material I would recommend the following:GRE verbal prep - A definitive guideGRE Prep: Crack the Quantitative Reasoning SectionGre Prep: Crack the Analytical Writing Assessment Section EffortlesslyGood Luck!







I recently took GRE. Got 330/340 after preparing for 20 days.I got 170/170 in Quant and 160/170 in Verbal. I learned words using Barron's 1100 words android application and Word power made easy(Norman Lewis).Barron's 1100 app link: Barron's 1100 - Android Apps on Google PlayWord power made easy: Buy the book, it's very cheap.I learned words from only these two sources and almost all the words on actual exam were covered in these two sources. Make sure that you do not simply cram the meanings. Try to understand the context.I think only learning these two sources in their entirety are sufficient for building a decent vocab for in GRE. I got a 113/120 in TOEFL too by only these too sources. If you have time, go for Magoosh flash cards App and learn only first two levels, leave the advanced one.One important part for preparation is to be able to apply what you have learned, for that you need a lot of practice. Buy Manhattan 5 pounds book. It has a lot for questions for practice. After learning the vocabulary, practice the questions from Manhattan book. Put more emphasis on RCs and Paragraph completion.For a good GRE score, one advice would be to maximize score in Quant. I used Barron's GRE book for revising basic mathematics concepts and used Manhattan 5 pounds for practice. Do not forget to prepare for the essay part; otherwise you will get an awful 3 like me!Good Luck for your exam.







I've just taken the test a couple months back, and let me assure you that the answer you might be looking for (not much time required) might be a right answer. I said might because it totally depends upon your existing knowledge and aptitude problem solving capabilities along with your reading habits and existing vocabulary. Verbal Section: Now, as I found out by taking the GRE twice, vocabulary is not the biggest deal that there is. Yes, I know this is contrary to what many people would tell you, but believe me, it's true. You don't need to take in all 4500 words to do well in the verbal section. What you really need is a good reading habit. If you're accustomed to reading The Hindu, The New Yorker, The New York Times, The Atlantic, Pacific Standards, et cetera, you would find the RC part of the GRE not as tough as it is perceived to be. You've got to have a healthy reading habit to do well in the verbal section. Let's auppose that you're not an avid reader, and that you hardly ever read newspapers. In this scenario, I'd advise you to start doing so first thing in the morning- well, after freshening up. And I'm not just talking about a newspaper or two, I'm talking about reading at least one newspaper (offline. Again, The Hindu is as good as it gets, especially here in India.)  and magazines such as The New Yorker, MIT Technology Review, The New York Times, The Atlantic, Pacific Standards, The Economist, The Verge, and a few really good websites such as Nautilus, Arts & Letters Daily. Do it whenever you can. I'd advise you to get up early in the morning and go for a run before rummaging through above sites and reading for at least 3 hours (try to go for editorials and read even the most boring article. It'll help a ton!) a couple months of following this routine (scrupulously) and you should be ready to take on the GRE verbal. Now, from where are you going to learn the new words for the GRE? The answer is, from the magazines you'll read (try maintaining a notebook with the words along with their meaning, usage in a sentence and synonyms.) and from 1100 words by Barron's, Manhattan 500 Basic and 500 Advanced flash cards, and  Magoosh GRE verbal flash cards app. I'd also suggest buying or downloading Manhattan 8 series books. They're amazing and cover literally everything.I know it's a lot of work, but with gusto, it's not that big a baggage, but fun.Quantitative Section:Manhattan 5lbs book. Hands down! Your ultimate guide to get into the late 150 and early 160. To push further, you're gonna have to give a lot of mock tests and solve ETS' guide for GRE. ETS is a must buy. If you're comfortable with the quant part, I'd say a couple weeks should suffice. But still, take 3.5 to be on the safe side and to avoid rushing through the exercises. Manhattan 8 series books will also help you here with concepts.AWA: Now, with the help of 8 series guide's and ETS' guidelines and the topics given in their site, you should be able to nail this one if you are into writing or reading. Practice it for a week or so and you're ready for it. It's quite fun, to be honest. Most importantly, don't lose hope, gusto, and be focused. And, maintain a time-table. Good luck.







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is a test of your overall performance in terms of your quantitative aptitude, English language proficiency and analytical writing skills. The quantitative section deals with your high school math fundamentals. Questions from your basic math are asked in a brain teasing way. Tackling this section with ease requires lots of practice. The most important constraint is the time. You will have to solve the paper within the allotted time. The following information provides you with a detailed insight into the quantitative section along with some useful math tips that will help improve your score. Areas of concern for GRE quant sectionThe GRE Quant Section concentrates primarily on 4 major areas namelyArithmeticAlgebraGeometryData analysisOne should not anticipate direct and easily solvable questions in the Math section of the GRE paper. You will be asked questions from the above mentioned concepts in a twisted fashion. These questions take much of your time if you are not prepared well. The questions might involve a single concept or else might be based on more than one concept. Usually, the questions asked are the ones involving more than one concept. The crux of the given problem involves simple logic and if you are one among those who strike the right chord, you will surely be successful. For such ability, you will require lot of practice and some tips to improve your aptitude and save time. GRE Quantitative tips will help you a lot.ArithmeticUnderstanding the number family such as prime, positive, negative, even and odd numbers is the key to scoring in Arithmetic’s.Familiarity with elementary mathematics such as ratios, decimals, percentage, probability, etc could be established through preparative materials such as Kaplan’s Maths Guide and workbooks.The various rules associated with logical reasoning could be written down and reviewed periodically as logical reasoning always has an upper hand in solving these problems more easily when compared to formulas.AlgebraPractice should be initiated with simple questions followed by challenging problems.Basic algebra concentrates on variable manipulations and simplifying equations.Scratch paper must be used to solve these problems rather than attempting to solve them in your head. This technique avoids confusion and increases speed.Changing signs are the areas of common mistakes to look out for in Algebra. Continuous practice and clear understanding of concepts resolves these problems.GeometryYou could begin by mastering primary planar geometry involving lines, angles and basic shapes. Geometric formulas for basic calculations should be memorized.Diagrams must always be constructed for these types of questions. Illustrations are always a shortcut to solving geometry problems efficiently in lesser time than required.DataAnalysisData Analysis includes questions from statistics involving mean, median, mode, frequency distributions, charts, tables and graphs.Tackling these questions begin with scanning through the presented data to get a fundamental idea and focusing only on the conditions required for answering the questions.It is mandatory to keep an eye open to characteristics such as axes of graphs, units of measurements and orders of magnitude to avoid common conversion errors.More the practice, better are the chances of scoring in these questions.You can also watch my videos https://www.youtube.com/channel/... Or you can visit my website for excellent online course for GRE at www.catking.in







I recently took the GRE for the first time and got a 161 Quantitative Reasoning, 161 Verbal Reasoning. For reference, I'm an Indian with an undergraduate background in Computer science, working full-time about four years out from college. I started studying about seven weeks before my test date and studied in two phases. In the first phase (weeks 1-4), I mostly followed my coachings 1-month study plan and completed all of the associated lesson videos and practice problems. In the second phase (weeks 5-7), I did ETS practice problems along with the practice test provided by my coaching.I wrote up this study plan for a friend, but I thought I'd share it here in case folks are interested.My way of preparation was unconventional, however, I would recommend it highly.You should not take a mock test without familiarizing yourself with all the concepts, as it might demotivate you. Instead, Download Official ETS math review and Official ETS Verbal reasoning review and go through them.I did this early on to refresh my memory on the different quant topics, many of which I hadn't used in 2-3 years. It's a good place to start, but the exercises are smaller, discrete components of typical GRE quant problems. I also looked through the Math Conventions to familiarize myself.This will familiarize you with the mathematical and verbal concepts that are important in solving problems.Resources: One of the most annoying things I found about studying for the GRE is actually acquiring GRE preparation resources.I have curated a list of resources.Formulae Sheet: https://imgur.com/a/BNUUDI8Book PDF(Quant + Verbal): https://drive.google.com/drive/f...Verbal Video playlist: [GRE] Prep smart, keep it simple! - YouTubeI'm a big procrastinator, so instead of studying regularly over the span of a long time, I opted to cram at the last minute. Here are some effective GRE cramming tips for you, if I could do it all over again, I would study regularly and start long before the time of the exam.Verbal: Respect the Word list!For my first mock, I didn't learn any vocab at all, thinking that learning a few new words won't matter in the grand scheme of things. After all, it was my reading ability that will be put to the test yeah? Considering how many words I don't know in the English language, I figured why to bother. MISTAKE! The GRE has a list of words that the test-makers like to use at an absurdly frequent rate. Many sites and books have lists of high-frequency words that have come up time and again on the GRE general. I initially dismissed it, but after learning the words on the list that I didn't already know, I began seeing just how often they came up in all of the practice tests I took. Yes, the real exam was inundated with them as well. Study the high-frequency words! IMO, words not mentioned in any of these lists are not a priority, but these definitely are. This list was really helpful to me while cramming, as they were something concrete and meaningful I could do in the span of a few weeks.Reading Comprehension: The reading comprehension on the GRE is in my opinion more challenging than what you will find in most of the practice tests. How to prepare for this will somewhat depend on your personal experience with dense/verbose writing. I am an engineer but I took both Advance English courses in the first year and read some tricky material of writers like Kafka, Michael Crichton, Douglas Adams etc. The best advice I can give is to really carefully consider what the question is asking, especially when you see "inferred" or "the author's opinion would most likely be". In these cases, remember, you are not a wizard; you are looking for something that is almost stated explicitly.If you are having difficulty with reading comprehension, I would definitely recommend practice RC sections in the gmatclub. Lot's of practice sets there with great explanations. You should time yourself as well and try to work quickly. The quicker and more confidently you can make these analytical decisions, the better you will feel taking a test.Quantitative: As I stated, I have an engineering background so I am supposed to walk in with a pretty solid base. However, because the GRE covers a wide array of topics I definitely have weaknesses in quant. You will want to be damn comfortable with inequalities, polygons (primarily triangle rules) and circles, and basic statistics (mean, median, mode, understand how a standard deviation is computed) as these are guaranteed to be all over. After taking a lot of practice tests, the key with quant, in my opinion, is not getting hung on a question or set of questions.Data Analysis - This is undoubtedly the easiest place to lose a ton of time. Based on the overcrowded graphs they give you it may take you 90+ seconds just to figure out where the hell stuff is. greprepclub has a ton of these problems and is a great way to work on your speed.Setting Up Algebraic Equations - These questions can be exceedingly annoying. They are often long-winded and written to be confusing. The good news is they almost always take the form of some age relationship, variable rates or work question. This means, with practice, you can get very efficient at them, having basically seen the same question 20+ times before test day.Inequalities - These can get really twisted in your head if you think of them theoretically. The good news is, they can almost always be solved by plugging in values. Get comfortable quickly identifying the values to plug in, such that you create friendly things to analyze (3 versus 14/85) and you won't lose time here.Misc tipsTime is the most valuable resource. Knowing shortcuts and faster approaches save time that can be used to check work or revisit tricky problems--this is why it's worth watching the explanation videos even when I got the problem right. It's also important to take advantage of the ability in the revised GRE to skip problems and come back later. This has the added benefit of seeing a problem in a new light, which may reveal information or approaches missed the first time through.Simulate test day faithfully. I read the ETS test day information from the start to gain familiarity with the test center rules so I could simulate that environment as closely as possible. Since I was taking the computer-based GRE, I took computer-based practice tests or stood up the book like a screen so I could practice copying equations and drawings to paper (over the course of 7 weeks, there were at least 20 or 30 quant practice problems that I got wrong simply because I incorrectly transcribed an equation or expression). I also didn't let myself drink water or go to the bathroom during practice tests (except during the 10-minute break). Making it as close to real as-as possible prevented surprises on test day.Don't over-study. I found that studying more than about 2 or 3 hours a day had diminishing returns since my brain could only absorb so much information per day, even with plenty of sleep. I usually did around 60 to 90 minutes of topic review (i.e. lesson videos, flashcards) and 60 to 90 minutes of practice problems, which was about as much as I could handle after an eight hour work day.







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is a test that is a requirement for most of the masters and doctoral degree programs in most of the universities of the US, UK, Germany, and Canada. The exams are developed and administered by Educational Testing Services (ETS). This is the most popular exam for pursuing MS abroad.What’s the purpose of the GRE Exam?According to the ETS, the GRE intends to measure the analytical, quantitative, verbal, and critical thinking skills of a test-taker. Broadly speaking, the GRE questions are based on concepts from the basic Maths, verbal logic, and vocabulary. This Exam is mainly taken by MS aspirants who want to study abroad.What are the prerequisites for GRE?There are no official prerequisites for taking this exam and it is intended for undergraduate students and bachelor’s degree graduated students. It is offered almost everywhere in the world in only one language- English.It is offered all around the year as a computer-based test which can be taken once in 21 days with a restriction of max 5 times a year. On multiple attempts, the best score is considered. Once taken, the score is valid for 5 years. It is also offered as a paper-based test 3 times a year where the computer-based facility isn’t available. However, most of the people go for a computer-based test.What’s the cost for the GRE Exam?The cost of taking the test is 205 US Dollars 13,500 to 14,000 INR (Although, it might vary based on the country). ETS also offers financial aid to students who prove economic hardship.GRE consists ofVerbal-1. Use etymology to guess the meaning of words you are not confident on2. Critical reasoning is just one percent of the syllabus; so do not spend alot of time dwelling on it. They are usually time-consuming and hence do not start the section with it.3. Do not attempt to do all Reading comprehension in one go. You may lose track of the time and monotonous passages will drone you out.4. Look out for antonyms in the option sets. They will help you eliminate the incorrect options.5. Compensate for the extra time in Reading Comprehension questions by Sentence Equivalence (synonyms) which can be solved in less than a minute.Quant-1. Use the substitution method and check possibilities to ascertain the correct choice. They will save you more time than if you actually try to solve.2. Make your own diagrams. Just because 2 sides of a triangle are 3 and 4, it doesn’t imply the 3rd side will be 5 units, unless it is a right-angled triangle. Such tricky questions are a part and parcel of almost every question.3. Just because the Calculator is available doesn’t mean you jump to start calculating. Many questions are logic questions and can be solved with the right approach. Just see if the answer you are looking for is an odd number, a prime number, a multiple of a number, etc and you will be able to save on calculation time.4. Usually, it is the silly mistakes that cost most of us. How often have we forgotten that 0 is an even number, or that square root of 64 can also be -8! Just try to recheck the answers along with the options to make sure you have not missed the obviousAWA-1. Familiarize yourself with a pool of 300 topics suggested by ETS over a period of time. Since your exam starts with the essay writing section, you don’t want to come across a topic which you don’t understand. The panic will then set in and have a domino effect, affecting the rest of the sections.2. In issue essays always take a stand. The idea is to judge how well you are able to defend the stand you take3. In argumentative essays always try to find fault in the logic.4. It is important to have a proper structure in place in both the essays with a proper introduction and a conclusion which reiterates and justifies your stand5. A good essay should be around 350-500 words.However, there are Universities who do not require GRE for MS.Hope this helps.







Short answer: Want to pursue your Master’s abroad or specifically in the US? The GRE exam will help you do this. GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination.Long answer: It is a standardized test that is generally required by universities in the US and certain other universities across the globe. What is a standardized test, you ask? A standardized test is any test which requires all test-takers to a) answer the same questions or questions from a common bank of questions in the same manner and b) that is scored or evaluated in the same manner. This ensures that all test-takers, objectively, have an equal shot at success and also allows for the comparison of the relative performance of an individual.Now let’s cover the GRE Exam pattern. The GRE exam can be divided broadly into two categories:The Quantitative Reasoning SectionThe Verbal Reasoning Section - Both assessed on a scale of 130-170.There is a third, Analytical Writing Section that (as the name suggests) aims to measure your ability to construct and articulate complex ideas and arguments and support them. This section is of particular importance to PhD aspirants.The test can be taken throughout the year AND the scores you receive are valid for FIVE years after you take the exam. This is good news for those who aren’t sure when they want to start studying or those whose original plans get derailed.If and when you decide to take the GRE exam, you’re going to want to score as high as you can, right? The good news is, it’s not as hard as you might think.Good luck to you!







GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination which is a standardised test generally required by most of the US Universities and some other Universities worldwide for the Masters program.It consist of 3 sections:Verbal SectionQuantative SectionAnalytical WritingIt is assessed on a scale of 130–170 for the first two section and 0–6 for Analytical writing.For further information you cab refer the following link, The GRE Test: What You Need to KnowAll the best!







What is GRE?The Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) is a standardized test that is an admissions requirement for most graduate schools in the United States. The GRE is owned and administered by Educational Testing Service (ETS). The test was established in 1936 by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.What are the Skills Tested in GRE?Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)Quantitative ReasoningVerbal ReasoningGRE Scoring?GRE is evaluated out of a score of 340. That’s, 170 for Quantitative Reasoning and 170 for Verbal Reasoning. The minimum score that one can get is 260 out of 340. AWA is evaluated out of a scale of 0 to 6 with increment of 0.5 (That means that a student for example can get 4.5 out of a scale of 6).What is the GRE Exam Pattern?The structure of the computer-delivered test is as mentioned belowAnalytical Writing(One section with two separately timed tasks)	One "Analyze an Issue" task and one "Analyze an Argument" task	30 minutes per taskVerbal Reasoning(Two sections)	20 questions per section	30 minutes per sectionQuantitative Reasoning(Two sections)	20 questions per section	35 minutes per sectionKindly note that there will be one experimental section (either Quant or Verbal) in addition to the above mentioned pattern. However, the scores of the experimental section is not considered but it is not possible for one to know as so which one is an experimental section.What is the GRE Exam Duration?The total GRE exam duration is for almost about 3hrs and 50 minutes.What is the GRE Exam Fee and Eligibility?The GRE Exam Fee for General Tests is $ 205. However, GRE Exam Fee for Subject Tests is $ 150. GRE Scores are valid for 5 Years.One can submit GRE Scores to how many universities for Free on the day of an exam?One can report GRE Scores to 4 Universities for Free on the day of an exam. For every additional university, one needs to pay $27.How many days does it take for one to receive GRE Official Score Card?It takes about 10-15 Calendar Days for one to receive GRE Official Score Card.WHO ACCEPTS GRE?COUNTRIES ACCEPTING GRE SCORES ARE:USA:- Unarguably one of the most prominent destinations for management studies, it is the American business schools which started the trend of accepting GRE test scores for their MBA programmes.CANADA:- Besides USA, Canada is another country that accepts GRE scores in its business schools. Currently around 27 business schools in Canada accept GRE scores, out of which 5 fall among the top 100 business schools in the World. Among the top 5 business schools in the country, Western University is the only one which does not accept GRE.ASIA:- While universities in Asia are known to traditionally accept scores of standardized tests like GMAT and IELTS among others, few business schools have been that forthcoming with GRE. In total, around 100 universities all over Asia accept GRE scores.EUROPE:- Home to some of the finest business schools in the World, Europe boasts of names like Insead, HEC Paris in its list of top business schools. However, not many business schools around Europe accept GRE scores. Currently, over 50 business schools accept GRE scores across France, UK, Spain and Italy accept GRE scores for admission to its management programmes. Among the top, except IE business school in Spain, all the top 5 business schools from Europe accept GRE.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.VijayAlumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT]

“I studied in a Telugu medium school. My English skills are just okay, and I find the GRE Verbal Reasoning section intimidating. How do I face it?”“Ever since I turned a teen, I had been force-fed on The Hindu, Reader’s Digest, and the Time. Reading is now my favorite pastime. Yet, why do I find the Verbal Reasoning section of the GRE challenging?”At and between these two extremes is where students preparing for GRE fall. In my experience of 7 years as the Co founder of GREedge and having trained 30000+ students, I have realized that the Verbal Reasoning section is no cake walk for anyone. It can be, with methodical approach and some serious practice.Let’s approach this problem backward by analyzing what exactly can be challenging in the Verbal section of GRE:The answer choices can be tricky. For most TC, SE, & RC questions, while you may easily eliminate some of the choices, you will often be left with at least two choices that are close to being the correct answer choice. Choosing the correct one among them can be challenging.You might find some of the words in the question statement or the answer choices alien to you. In SE, where you have to choose two words with similar meanings for the blanks, this can particularly be challenging.The subject of the RC passage might be unfamiliar to you. Club it with some strange vocabulary and difficult language, and you can be thrown out of gear.“Choose all that apply” type of questions in RC. Considering that you don’t get any points for partially correct answers, this can be quite a pain, if you are not prepared.The logic and reasoning that is required in solving TC triple-blank questions and the RC passage questions can be challenging.Okay, now to the solutions. How do you overcome these challenges?Start by learning the most-important GRE words, which is about 3500 in number. Remember, GRE vocab is more about context and so focus on the contexts in which the words are used. The usage statements in dictionaries will help you in this aspect.As a simple example, though the words, “inflexible” and “obdurate” are synonymous, you wouldn’t use one in place of the other, right? It would be wrong to call an “inflexible schedule” to be an “obdurate schedule,” because the word, “obdurate,” refers to someone who is not flexible since he doesn’t wish to be so. An “obdurate” person refuses to move to sensitive emotional appeals.So, the point is, focus on the contextual usage of words. A good place to understand such nuances is the “synonym discussions” in Merriam Webster dictionary.Next, read good quality newspapers and periodicals. Read on your topic of interest. To describe the technique, I would like to share my personal experience here.I just got an update on the swimming competition at Rio Olympics and here’s what I learnt out of this snippet from The Guardian:I’ve been asked by reader Olympia Diamond if we ever got to the bottom of the manky green pool situation from yesterday. Yes and no? FINA put a statement out yesterday that included the following: FINA can confirm that the reason for the unusual water color observed during the Rio diving competitions is that the water tanks ran out of some of the chemicals used in the water treatment process.“As a result, the pH level of the water was outside the usual range, causing the discoloration. The FINA Sport Medicine Committee conducted tests on the water quality and concluded that there was no risk to the health and safety of the athletes, and no reason for the competition to be affected.”The old ran-out-of-chemicals defense. The water polo pool (next door) has a tinge of green to it now as well. I sense this story has some way to run.(A quick tip: FINA is the International Swimming Federation that is authorized by the International Olympic Committee to conduct international aquatic contests.)Okay, I might have just read this article, formed my own opinion of FINA, and move on to the next article, if I wasn’t going to take up my GRE. But, since I have my GRE now, I give it a second reading. I first understand the subject. It is about the sub-standard pool condition in the 2016 Olympics.I then mark new words (“manky” is one) in the article, look up the meaning, synonym/antonym, and usage statements in the dictionary. I open an Excel sheet and mark all such words that I pick up during the day. (Not trusting my memory, I do a weekly revision of this list.)Next, I look at places where the author is giving his opinion. Is he being critical of FINA or is he being supportive? Which is the statement in this article that indicates his opinion or tone? How is he concluding the write-up? Are there any gaps in his argument? Is he sounding biased?With this approach, you build not only your vocabulary but also your logic and reasoning skills. Gradually, move toward reading topics of serious interest, such as the Opinion and Editorial write-ups. Such writings are of more serious nature and you will get exposure to higher-order words, sentences, arguments, and contexts. This would largely help you in your Verbal Reasoning section of GRE.Finally, practice a number of TC, SE, & RC exercises. While there are trainers aplenty, go for quality trainers who know their job. Stick to the study plan that they provide. Practice a lot and take up timed tests. You will excel!







This link offers the best GRE Guide: The Ultimate GRE Guide - Cafe EnginerdThe verbal section in the link is described as follows,Verbal Prep:The key to cracking verbal is to know the words. If you get the words, it is just a simple English Fill in the Blank then.So where to do the words. Follow this method and you will crack the GRE:Read this entire book- Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition (English, Paperback, NORMAN LEWIS). It is a fairly small book that will tell you the origins of all the words and second half of the book is filled with words alphabetically. If you do this book, you are ready for the GRE. Please buy this book, its only for 100rs and will certainly change your future.Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition - Buy Word Power Made Easy New Revised & Expanded Edition Online at Best Prices in India - Flipkart.comThe Magoosh App (Complete it 3 TIMES, Not a JOKE)It is my opinion that rather than doing 10000 words while reading them only once, do only 2000-4000 words and read them 3-4 times. It is not humanly possible to remember the words in one go. The best method to remember words is to by remembering the example. Make sure you read the words so many times that you must remember not only the example but even the word that is next in line ;p. You can also do words from those Barron 800 or other 1000 words book. But they will simply be a repetition from Word Power.After you feel satisfied with the words, you can start off with the 5lb and other practice books. There is also some GMAT 1000. Do essays properly and understand how to read them. Reading is not as important as understanding what to read. Learn how to read. There is no method in this apart from quickly skimming and understanding what was written in which para. Read the question and find the answer properly in that para. Also, learn which essays to leave during the exam as some are very tough (literally greek) and will waste your time for the other easy questions.For more doubts about MS in US visit us: Masters - Cafe Enginerd and send your queries to cafeenginerd@gmail.com. Happy to Help!







These are the things I followed and managed to get a pretty decent score after preparing for 15-16 days. Barrons and Kaplan are excellent books to prepare for GRE, but before you start the real preparation, you want to know as many words as possible, for which the general suggestion everyone gives is reading Barrons wordlist.Most people do start off trying to read and remember those 3500 words from Barrons wordlist. But as I have noticed, a very high percentage of people give up within the first week and probably even before they finish words starting with 'a'. That might be for the following reasons:way too many words: if you have an amazing vocabulary and you are aware of most of the words, then its fine. But I am assuming thats not the case with most of us. Once you actually start reading and you know how much time you take to go through say a 100 words, its very discouraging to have that huge a set of words ahead of you.words are in alphabetical order: you have this whole page of words, say 40-50 words in a single page, so many times the first 3-4 characters will be the same for all of them, that is very very confusing. You will spend hours trying to memorize and yet you will horribly fail.content is compressed: if you buy the book having wordlist or if you manage to get a pdf copy, you will notice that the words and meanings are printed in small font and there is barely any space to write down any notes.So this is what I did:I came across this website http://www.majortests.com where you get 15 wordlists, each wordlist containing 100 words, thats 1500 words totally. In each wordlist, these 100 words are again subdivided into lists of 10 words each and now these 10 words dont start with the same letter. For example, 1st 10 words will be "abhor, bigot, counterfeit, enfranchise, hamper, kindle, noxious, placid, remuneration, talisman", and then the next 10 words will be "abrasive, bilk, covert, engender, hangar, knotty, nuance, plagiarism, renown, tangent" and so on. So its easier to read and remember these words.Secondly, the wordlists that you download from the above website have  exactly 20 words per page, and half of the page (right hand side column) is left blank to take down notes.If you still find it difficult to memorize words, or you want to be a 100% sure that you remember the words you read once, then you could try mnemonics, an easy way to remember meanings (thanks to gp). Go to http://www.mnemonicdictionary.com and type the word you want mnemonic for, and choose from the list of mnemonics available. This website is just like quora in the sense that mnemonics are arranged in the descending order of the number of upvotes they get. I used to write these mnemonics as notes in the wordlists I had got printed, that way I didnt have to go to the website again even if I forgot the mnemonic.(In the end, if you think you have a lot of time left, then you could go through Barrons high frequency words wordlist, you dont want to miss out on any obvious ones.)Once you are done with wordlists, then starts your actual preparation. As I mentioned earlier, go through ETS, Barrons and Kaplan practice books. Read the tips and tricks given at the beginning of every chapter, trust me they help a lot. Then go through the practice questions given at the end of every chapter. Do verify whether your answers are correct or not, that is the whole point of solving them.Go through as many practice tests as possible. A safe minimum number of tests to be taken would be 10. You get 2 tests from ETS, 2 from Barrons if you have bought the book, and you will find several other paid/unpaid tests online. If you are taking online tests, make sure you have good internet connection probably 3g, you dont want any test to go waste mid way through. Take complete tests: no matter how confident you are about your quant, no matter how painstaking and boring essay writing may seem, its necessary you practice sitting for 4 hours in from of a computer and get an estimate of time required per question. Once you get the score after giving the practice test, go through the questions you answered wrong, even if you have got a good score. It would be a good idea to leave practice tests given by ETS for last, it gives you an idea of what the questions look like in the actual GRE, since they use the same formatting at both places.Even though I mentioned 15-16 days in the beginning, I think preparing for around 2 months would be a better idea.

Many GRE experts say that you don't need to learn the exhaustive word-list in the new GRE format. Well it's true that you won't encounter many words out of the "high frequency word-lists" on your D-Day. For example, in most of the sentence equivalence questions, your answer will be the pair of words, among which, one is a general word and another one is a High Frequency GRE word. Say, "support" and "bolster". But ETS doesn't provide you any such word-list. Many words in one High Frequency Word List won't be on another list. The truth is, learning 2000-3000 words can give you an extra edge and you can score at least 5 more marks in your verbal section. Not only this. The good thing about learning new words is the fact that this is the only part of your GRE Test which is going to help you in the long run. Suppose you learned a word yesterday and you encounter that word while reading today's newspaper. The bliss it brings is just amazing. Your frequency to check for a word meaning in a dictionary will reduce by nearly 60%. Improving your vocabulary is really a good thing. And the GRE Test is the best excuse to achieve it. Don't take it as a burden. Take it as an opportunity.Okay, I am sorry I digressed from the main question. The best method to memorize GRE Words is to make FLASH CARDS and REVISE REVISE and REVISE. Pick a wordlist and aim to learn 50 words per day. On the next day, before learning the next 50 words, revise what you learned yesterday and make Flash Cards for those words which you don't remember. Also make flashcards of those words which you think you'll probably forget in the future. Don't learn new words on Sunday. Revise all the words you've learned till date from your flashcards.If you don't revise on a weekly basis, most likely you'll forget most of the new words within two weeks.Ankit Sharma's answer to Which is the best word list?Good Luck.







As enlisted in above answers, contextual way of learning of words are better than mugging up for a longer run.But how do we do that?Reading books and newspaper articles,watching movies or engaging in conversations which gives you a proper context to use words.But all these methods takes like forever to learn all the words.Our main concern is how to remember words easily within a shorter duration.How to build your GRE vocabulary in a short span of time?At the same time we can’t overload our brain with words. So how do we learn the words?1. Learn GRE words with pictures-Images help you define words in a meaningful context. They enable you to understand and utilize vocabulary in different aspects of life. In addition, they help you remember the words every time you see the object.Here is how to learn GRE words using pictures and a video on how to use CV Flashcards which you can buy from Amazon.2. Learn Vocabulary for GRE through Word Roots-Root Root words are the basic words to which affixes (prefixes and suffixes) are added to form the new word.Focusing on your test prep time on root words in addition to learning individual word can save your time,energy and improve your score is possible you will see words you do not know.Therefore,knowing the roots may help you get a sense of the general meaning of certain words3. Learn Theme based GRE Words-Your brain loves to make connections between things. So when you’re sad, and it’s raining, there’s a little part of you that feels like maybe your sadness is so heart-wrenchingly profound that you actually altered the weather.Or when you can see a leaf fall from a tree and suddenly get crystal-clear, long-forgotten flashbacks to your first day raking leaves, or visiting the mountains.When you see a leaf, your brain does this:So you can take up a theme and learn around 10 words associating it.Becomes much easier!!These are just a few points but you can check out this blog on - A detailed approach on how to learn vocabulary the points mentioned are really useful and will help you remember GRE words more easily.







It's a great way to start prepping with word list , but it's not as big deal as you might think of it to be. I've seen people going crazy to learn all the words, instead stay calm take them in as you encounter them. Few things that worked out for me were:1- Reading - and the best thing to read when you want to enhance your vocab is newspaper, (The hindu, my personal choice). I used to read editorial everyday and mark the words that I couldn't understand. Gradually, in a week or two you'll start coming across familiar words.2- POS- secondly, the meaning of the word is not enough, you need to know the parts of speech to which it belongs to, if you keep mugging up the word meanings, you might end up using them in wrong places , where they don't fit.3- memrise-  this is the website that worked marvels for me. memrise.com has all the wordlists that you might need. If you practice it regularly, I'm sure it'll help you a lot.4-Usage- using the words as you learn them is the most important thing you should do. You can use them in random conversations with friends. Initially though your friends might think that you are showing off your large vocab, but in the end you'll be the one who'll gain. Words that you use are going to stick to your mind, amf you'll be able to use it again amd again. And this my friend is THE MOST important trick.Hope it helps. All the best :)







Cultivate a habit of reading extensively. Any book (my personal recommendation are the classics), magazines – The Economist, Reader’s Digest,newspapers – NewYork Times, The Wall Street Journal, The Guardian(the best content lies in the editorials, and definitely not in the Page-3/entertainment section), websites and news sites (BBC has some of the finest content).To learn something new (activity, word etc.), learn by making associations. To learn new words, learn them by associating with a few words you already know; and associating with a few sentences.Etymological associations are the best. Learn the root of these words, learn how they were derived. As a bonus, etymological learning opens your horizons to the whole family of new words derived from the same root.Another association is learning with the synonyms. As you come across the new words, learn the synonyms for these words. There's a very fair chance you might know one or more of them.Most importantly, learn by usage. Every new word you learn, understand how it's various forms are used in a sentence. This makes your learning much more concrete. It is now a well established fact that you cannot learn a word by looking at it once, unless you are gifted with anesthetic memory.For the common people like us, we need to read them once, twice, thrice,and many more times. A general thumb rule is that you have to get exposed to the word 4-7 times (tend to the higher side for the more complex words), distributed over 15 days. That drills the word into your sub-conscious mind. Make it a habit to recall these new words regularly. As you read any website or newspaper, try replacing the words with the new set of words you've learnt.Last,and perhaps the best thing you can do is use this newly gained vocabulary as often as possible. You might, at times, sound outlandish; that's fine. Remember, vocabulary is like Siri, the more you use, the better it gets.I used Vocabsmith GRE app and it was very useful to remember words. It helped me learn the words, meanings, etymology, pronunciation, meanings with their usages. Further, VocabSmith would revise all the words over 2-3 weeks; this ensured I wouldn’t forget the words. I had subscribed to their GRE – High Frequency Package(1000 words) and could learn all the words in approximately two months.1.iOS:https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/...2.Android:https://play.google.com/store/ap...







The first question I want to ask you is, from where exactly are you going to find a list which will contain only GRE types of words. You just cant, what you can do is basically prepare for the best for the words which are applicable in your daily life, GRE never asks you the meaning of words that you are never going to use in real life. The whole purpose of giving GRE verbal section is that you can thrive in the American and other countries where English will be the first language for communication.So prepare for the words that you think that are actually going to be helpful in your real life scenarios and which you think could be and would be used in real life. The best way to prepare for these words are picking up reading material that is in your comfort zone and marking down and researching about the words you find foreign yet applicable in your life.So what does researching actually involves?1.Finding the correct meaning through dictonary2. Finding the root of the word if any3 . Finding the synonym and antonym of the word which you think is applicable in real life4.Jotting down a little extract of the pasage that you found the word in5. Following up the word and using it in real life, also involves thorough revision.Doing the above step for lets say 5 words everyday, will enhance your vocabulary effectively. I have also included a follow up action to be take in the research section because it is actually very important to do so. You have to go back to the words you learn before, to revise is to relearn and that is wht you need to do.Also, if you dont have much time in giving your GRE, I would recommend the following method.Steps to learn new words in effective manner  1.Pickup reading material that excites you let it be newspaper, books, novels or whatever.  2. Mark the words that you find foreign and jot them down. 3. Try to identify the roots of the words. 4. Later try to find the meaning of these words on your own in terms of the context you read and literal meaning in dictionary.  Now to learn the roots I would suggest you to refer to book by “Norman Lewis” called “Word power made easy”. But just learning the roots is not enough you need to learn its application and for that I suggest you to download the app VOLT – Vocabulary Learning Technique. And it is made by IIT and IIM alumni; the app has many great features that will help you.   Some of them are,   1.Pictorial representation of the word ( In the sense it can be used ) explained correct meaning 2.Provision of synonym and antonyms of every word, its usage in sentence , pronunciation of the word in both verbal track and written (break down of the word) .  3. The app has numerous words which can be learnt and are used in our day to day lives.  4. If you are going to give your GRE exam in 2-3 months then this app is bible for you, as in less time you will be able to learn the most probable words that could be asked in you exam   The App provides with pictures that represent the word. Visual representation leaves maximum impression on our brain and hence makes it very easy to learn new words.  But the best usage of VoLT can only be taken if you practice the words regularly in your daily life and apply them as much as you can. Else it’s just mugging up words that will lead you nowhere.   The above mentioned technique will not only help you in your GRE only but also will bean indispensible tool in preparation of your TOEFL exam. I have seen people prepare for their TOEFL in just 2 days and score 100+, but this is a very risky method to follow and isonly suitable for people who have given their GRE as they have already worked on their English skills.Make sure to check out our app VOLT on Google play store. It now has over 1.1 lakh downloads and has amazing cool features that will make your verbal section easy and interestingVoLT: Vocabulary Learning Technique , helps student prepare for Verbal and Vocabulary section of competitive exam.Link for download VoLT - Vocabulary Learning - Android Apps on Google Play







When I first took the GRE PowerPrep II test and scored 155 in the verbal I was devastated. With only 3 months to go, there was no way I could score 165+ which I needed to get admitted to a prestigious Master’s in International relations program. I also had a friend that scored 158 in the verbal section and was aiming to go to a prestigious CS school (UC Berkeley) who felt that his scores were not high enough. So we started studying different word lists from CrunchPrep, Manhattan, Kaplan and Magoosh. But one day a friend of a friend who aced the verbal section (170 verbal) told us not to study those lists because only a few of these words appear on the GRE. He said the ETS test makers repeat words they asked years ago and we should study from 1500 high frequency list word. He said that was how he scored so high on the verbal. So we trusted him and started studying from that material. And we both scored very high on the verbal section I scored 168 and my friend scored 170! All thanks to a good friends advice.GRE Word Lists : Learn 1500 essential GRE words













The below study method is tried and tested by me and I'm hopeful that it would help you guys :) To excel at GRE Verbal, one has to have a good vocabulary. To bag a good vocabulary, make it a habit of reading newspapers daily because newspapers offer wide range of working vocabulary  related to different genres. I would recommend American newspapers (like Nytimes.com)  because the writing style closely matches with that of the content that appears in the exam. Coming to Indian newspapers, we all know that it has to be THE HINDU and nothing else. Observe every new word and understand its meaning. Revise it regularly.(Vocabulary.com  does a very good job for you in this. It tells you everything that you need to know about a word. Also, you can make word lists).  Try to use the words in your daily life.  One to two months of this reading should suffice. Now coming to cracking the individual sections of the verbal. 1)Reading Comprehension.Follow the simple steps mentioned in Manhattan Reading Comprehension book and practice diligently. 2)Text Completion and Sentence Equivalence Follow Manhattan text completion and sentence equivalence book. Very good hacks are mentioned in the book. It would be very useful. Again practice thoroughly. 3)  Practice questions from the book Manhattan 5lb practice as the above mentioned books do not offer sufficient number of questions. This book offers wide range of books in varying difficult levels.  In short, a good reading vocabulary equipped with the hacks mentioned in the above mentioned books will get you above 157 easily. Happy learning :)







Thanks for the A2AThe fact that you have a good hold of atleast one branch of English usage is a strength. As for what you said, it’s not all about memorizing lists and reading newspapers. You just need to know some of the common words that are used in native English speaking nations and since you (like me) are a non-native speaker, you’re finding it difficult. But keep in mind that some of these words are going to pervade your regular vocabulary and feature in your regular usage, so even if you do have to memorize it, don’t feel that it is not going to be useful. As kids, we all memorized the alphabets and the simple words from the alphabets.Secondly, reading newspapers or for that matter anything with dense verbal content, you’re increasing your skills of comprehension, which is so necessary in the actual exam (also to reiterate my point, some of the difficult words will also be used in the passages). My personal opinion is that mastering reading comprehension is a sure way of getting a great score in the test, since even the text completion and sentence equivalence questions you solve would necessitate comprehending them (and they are quite dense with respect to content). So reading stuff that enhances your knowledge, uses good vocabulary and is of a varied nature when it comes to subject content is always helpful for the test, and a good newspaper is something that fits the billing perfectly.As for the preparation, if you want to do it unconventionally, I’d suggest you read books that have good content in them and uses above average vocabulary and try to absorb the gist of the text. Search for word meanings when you come across them, try to use them, so that you’ll know how to use words in context. Make a list of such words and make sentences to use them in. If you can’t read books, search for articles in a variety of subjects and do the same with it. The more topics you’re comfortable with, the better chances you have of scoring well. This is more time consuming than the conventional process and needs a lot of dedication and efforts and I assure you that it’d be worth it.







GRE Prep Online Guides and TipsHow to Ace GRE Verbal: 13 Expert Study TipsAuthor Ellen McCammonPosted onFebruary 7, 2017CategoriesGRE VerbalTagsgre format,gre practice, gre vocab, preparing for the gre, question types, reading comprehension, study tipsFeeling vexed by the GRE Verbal section? Or just not sure how to maximize your score? You’ve come to the right place!In this total guide to acing GRE Verbal, we’ll give a comprehensive overview of everything you need to know to get a great score. We’ll start with a quick bird’s-eye-view of the section, and then go in-depth on each question type. After that we’ll go over how to prepare for the test—with a special section on addressing common weaknesses. Finally, we’ll suggest some strategies for success on test day and provide a couple of extra tips for those of you who are going for that perfect 170!The GRE Verbal Section: An OverviewThe GRE Verbal Reasoning sectiontests your high-level reading and language skills. You’ll be asked vocabulary questions about choosing the appropriate word(s) for a given sentence based on context, and reading comprehension questions that have to do with parsing the main ideas and interpreting the details of complex passages.Like the Quantitative section, the GRE Verbal Section is a 40-question test split into two 20-question subsections. It’s scored on a scale from 130-170, in one-point increments.The GRE is section-adaptive, which means your performance on the first 20-question subsection determines the difficulty of questions in the second 20-question subsection. If you want a score towards the higher end of the scale, you need to be able to access that more difficult second subsection.Each 20-question section will havethe following approximate question breakdown:About 10 questions on vocab,split between sentence equivalence and text completion questions.About 10 questions on reading comprehension, split between traditional multiple choice, multi-answer multiple choice (select all correct answers from a list), and select-in-passage questions.We’ll do a deep dive on each of these question types in the next section.Quick side note: we've created the world's leading online GRE prep program that adapts to you and your strengths and weaknesses. Not sure what to study? Confused by how to improve your score? PrepScholar guides you, step by step.I want to be clear - you don't NEED a prep program to get a great GRE score. But we believe PrepScholar is thebest GRE prep program available right now, especially if you find it hard to organize your study schedule and don't know what to study.Click here to learn how you can improve your GRE score by 7 points, guaranteed.So get your scuba gear ready!GRE Verbal Questions: All 5 Types ExplainedIn this section, we’ll explain each GRE Verbal question type, provide an example and explanation, and give tips on how to approach those questions.GRE Verbal Vocab QuestionsThere are two kinds of vocab questions: sentence equivalence and text completion.SENTENCE EQUIVALENCESentence equivalence questions give you a sentence with one blank, and you need to pick two words from a selection of six that could both complete the sentence and give the sentence the same general meaning.Example QuestionHere’s an example of a sentence equivalence question from the ETS website.Directions: “Select the two answer choices that, when used to complete the sentence, fit the meaning of the sentence as a whole and produce completed sentences that are alike in meaning.”Question: Although it does contain some pioneering ideas, one would hardly characterize the work as __________.orthodoxeccentricoriginaltriflingconventionalinnovativeExplanationThe key signal word here is “although,” which lets us know that the second half of the sentence is going to offer a counterpoint to the first half. So though the work has “pioneering ideas” [point], one would not characterize the work as pioneering overall [counterpoint]. We’re looking for synonyms of pioneering to complete the sentence, then.“Orthodox” and “conventional” are antonyms of pioneering—let’s eliminate those. “Eccentric” is tempting, but a work can be strange without being pioneering, so it’s not quite right. “Original”—that could definitely work. “Trifling” means frivolous or inconsequential, which isn’t right. That leaves “innovative,” which is definitely a synonym for “pioneering.” The only answers that really work, then, are “original” and “innovative.”GRE Verbal Tips for Sentence EquivalenceWhile a lot of the individual words might make seem like they make sense in the context of the sentence, the two words have to give the sentence a similar meaning.If you’re pretty sure of one word, that can help you narrow down your choices for the other word; you can eliminate any choices that would make the sentence mean something totally different.However, don’t assume that just because you’ve found two synonyms that you’ve got the right answer; the makers of the GRE often put in multiple synonym pairs to trip you up! In the question above, “orthodox” and “traditional” have similar meaning, but they aren’t the right choices because the sentence doesn’t really make sense with them.I know they’re cute, but don’t just pick the first twins you see!TEXT COMPLETIONText completion questions give you a sentence or short passage (up to six sentences) missing one to three words. You’ll need to select the word(s) that best complete the passage.For passages with one missing word, you’ll select the correct word from five choices. For passages with two or three missing words, each blank will have three possible answer choices. In all cases, you’ll select the word(s) you want to choose by clicking on them. For single-blank questions, this will just be from a list; for multiple-blank questions, you’ll have a table where each column represents your choices for a particular blank.Example QuestionHere’s an example of text completion from the ETS website so you can see what this looks like in action.Directions: “For each blank select one entry from the corresponding column of choices. Fill all blanks in the way that best completes the text.”Question: Vain and prone to violence, Caravaggio could not handle success: the more his (i)__________ as an artist increased, the more (ii)__________ his life became.Blank (i)Blank (ii)temperancetumultuousnotorietyprovidentialeminencedispassionateExplanationThe key phrase here is “Caravaggio could not handle success.” This indicates that the rest of the sentence is going to elaborate on how he handled success poorly. So the blank in the phrase “the more his <blank> as an artist increased” is going to be a synonym for “success.”Temperance is definitely wrong—it means “restraint” or “abstinence from alcohol.” That leaves “notoriety,” which means “fame,” but with a potentially negative implication (think “notorious”). It’s tempting, but “eminence”—fame with the implication of skill or success—is a better synonym for “success.”Since we know Caravaggio could not handle success, we are looking for a negative word to describe his life once he became successful for the second blank. “Tumultuous” (meaning “chaotic,” like a tumult) is the only choice that’s clearly negative. (“Providential” means “lucky”—think “providence,” like “divine providence”—and “dispassionate” means “detached.”) So, the correct answer is “eminence” and then “tumultuous.”GRE Verbal Tips for Text CompletionA really important thing for text completion is word valence. What do I mean by this? Word valence is whether a word has a positive or a negative tone overall. You can usually figure out whether a word should have a positive or a negative connotation from sentence context, even if you can’t exactly figure out the word is. For example, in the above question, in the first blank, “the more his _______ as an artist increased,” it’s pretty clear from context that this should be a positive word. This actually helps us pick between “notoriety” and “eminence” even though they have similar meanings—“notoriety” has a negative valence, while “eminence” has a positive one.If you aren’t familiar with a word in the list, try to think if you know any similar words.For blank (ii) above, you may not be familiar with “tumultuous,” but have you heard the word “tumult”? Or maybe you don’t know “providential,” but you know “providence” and you have a sense that it means protection or care. Any information you can leverage about words you do know can help you figure out the right choice when you aren’t totally sure what all the words mean.Word valence: you have two choices.GRE Verbal Reading Comprehension QuestionsThere are three kinds of reading comprehension questions: multiple choice, multiple-answer multiple choice, and select-in-passage. All reading comprehension example questions come from ETS and are based on the following example passage: (See passage and questions from ETS here).Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition, an approach that had been in hibernation in the United States during the 1960s, composer Philip Glass (born 1937) embraced the ethos of popular music in his compositions. Glass based two symphonies on music by rock musicians David Bowie and Brian Eno, but the symphonies’ sound is distinctively his. Popular elements do not appear out of place in Glass’s classical music, which from its early days has shared certain harmonies and rhythms with rock music. Yet this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music. His music is not a version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners; it is high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics.MULTIPLE CHOICEMultiple choice questions are pretty straightforward, at least in format.Example QuestionDirections: Select only one answer choice.Question: The passage addresses which of the following issues related to Glass’s use of popular elements in his classical compositions?Want to improve your GRE score by 7 points? We have the industry's leading GRE prep program. Built byworld-class instructors with 99th percentile GRE scores, the program learns your strengths and weaknesses through machine learning data science, then customizes your prep program to you so you get the most effective prep possible.Try our 5-day full access trial for free:Get a great GRE score. GuaranteedHow it is regarded by listeners who prefer rock to the classicsHow it has affected the commercial success of Glass’s musicWhether it has contributed to a revival of interest among other composers in using popular elements in their compositionsWhether it has had a detrimental effect on Glass’s reputation as a composer of classical musicWhether it has caused certain of Glass’s works to be derivative in qualityExplanationThis question wants to know what the passage says about “issues related to Glass’s use of popular elements in his classical compositions.” Let’s go through the answers to see if any are supported by the passage.Choice (A) says “how it [Glass’ use of popular elements] is regarded by listeners who prefer rock to the classics.” If you look back up at the passage, you can see that the passage doesn’t mention people who prefer rock music at all. Choice (A) can’t be correct; let’s move on. Choice (B) refers to Glass’ commercial success, but again, the passage doesn’t mention anything about Glass’ profits or popularity. Choice (C) discusses Glass’ effects on other composers. Other composers aren’t mentioned—just popular musicians Brian Eno and David Bowie.We are left with choices (D) and (E) as the only possible answers at this point. Choice (D) talks about Glass’ reputation as a composer. The passage doesn’t say anything explicit about his reputation; for all we know, everyone but the author hates Philip Glass. This leaves (E)— “whether [Glass’ use of popular elements] has caused certain of Glass’ works to be derivative in quality.” If you look in the passage, the author asserts about Glass’ symphonies based on works by Eno and Bowie that “the symphonies’ sound is distinctly his.” This does address whether or not the works are derivative by asserting that they are not. (E) is the correct answer.Tips for Multiple Choice Reading Comprehension Questions:Rely on evidence from the passage. This is the most important strategy for ALL reading comprehension questions. There might only be a few words in the passage that directly address the correct answer, as in the above question, where all we get on the issue of whether or not Glass’ works are derivative is the phrase that the “symphonies’ sound is distinctly his.” This is sparse—but it’s there, and it is responsive to whether or not his works are derivative. There will always be concrete evidence of some kind in the passage to support the correct answer. Don’t get tricked by answer choices that aren’t directly contradicted by the passage but that don’t actually have any evidence present—ETS loves to include choices like this.With that said, don’t try to absorb every detail of the passage on a first pass-through. We’ll discuss developing a strategy to address passages later in the article, but it’s far better to read passages for main ideas first and then look back at the passage for more details when you are trying to select the right answer.The sponge strategy of total absorption is actually not your best bet here.MULTI-ANSWER MULTIPLE CHOICEIn multiple-answer multiple choice GRE Verbal questions, you’ll be given three numbered choices and need to select all that apply.Example:Directions: Consider each of the three choices separately and select all that apply.Question: The passage suggests that Glass’s work displays which of the following qualities?A return to the use of popular music in classical compositionsAn attempt to elevate rock music to an artistic status more closely approximating that of classical musicA long-standing tendency to incorporate elements from two apparently disparate musical stylesExplanation:Since we need to pick each statement that applies, let’s consider each of them separately.First, does Glass’s work display “a return to the use of popular music in classical compositions”? If we look back at the passage, we can see that the very first phrase is “Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition” about Glass’s work. (A) is correct!Let’s move on to (B). Does Glass’s work display “an attempt to elevate rock music to an artistic status more closely approximating that of classical music”? You might think the answer is yes because Glass is an artistic composer who uses rock elements. But it’s critical that we actually look back at details in the passage. Then we’ll see that it says that “this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music.” If Glass doesn’t compose popular—i.e. rock—music, then he can’t be attempting to “elevate” rock music. He’s simply incorporating rock elements in classical music, which already has “artistic status.” So (B) isn’t correct.Moving on to (C), does Glass’s work display “a long-standing tendency to incorporate elements from two apparently disparate musical styles”? We know that Glass incorporates rock elements into his classical compositions. So he does “incorporate elements” of “disparate musical styles.” But is it a “long-standing tendency?” The passage says Glass “revive[d] the practice,” which had “been in hibernation.” This suggests that there was a history of combining musical styles. That could be described as a “long-standing tendency.” (C) is also correct. That leaves us with (A) and (C) as our answers.GRE Verbal Tips for Multiple-Answer Multiple-Choice QuestionsYou have seven possible answer choice combinationsfor these questions (A, B, C, A&B, A&C, B&C, A&B&C), but don’t be overwhelmed by this.Consider each statement individually and assess it on its own merits without considering any of the others. For other question styles, comparing answer choices is smart because there will be one best answer. For this kind of question, it’s much better to treat each statement as a mini-question of its own. Does the statement apply to the passage? Yes or no?For a statement to be correct,every part of that statement has to be correct. For example, in the above statement (C), we didn’t just have to determine if Glass combined disparate elements of two styles—we had to determine if there was a “long-standing tendency.” You have to consider all parts of each statement. Don’t ignore a single word!As in other reading comprehension questions, rely on what’s in the passage for evidence. If you have to make any logical leaps or inferences with no direct evidence from the text, it’s not the right answer.So does this mean that if I compose a rock opera they might include a passage about me in the GRE?SELECT-IN-PASSAGEIn select-in-passage questions for GRE Verbal, you will be directed toselect the sentence that best fulfills a particular criteria. Then you will literally click the sentence in the passage on your screen to select your answer.Example QuestionDirections/Question: Select the sentence that distinguishes two ways of integrating rock and classical music. [Note: in the actual GRE Verbal section, you will hover your cursor over the passage and click on the sentence you want].Reviving the practice of using elements of popular music in classical composition, an approach that had been in hibernation in the United States during the 1960s, composer Philip Glass (born 1937) embraced the ethos of popular music in his compositions.Glass based two symphonies on music by rock musicians David Bowie and Brian Eno, but the symphonies’ sound is distinctively his.Popular elements do not appear out of place in Glass’s classical music, which from its early days has shared certain harmonies and rhythms with rock music.Yet this use of popular elements has not made Glass a composer of popular music.His music is not a version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners; it is high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics.ExplanationThe key thing we are looking for here is a sentence with two ways to integrate rock and classical music. Let’s go through it sentence-by-sentence:The first sentence only talks about one way: “using elements of popular music in classical composition.”The second sentence continues to talk about this one way, just with a specific example.The third sentence continues to talk about one way—using popular elements in “Glass’s classical music.”The fourth sentence seems a little ambiguous at first—it mentions his use of popular elements has not made him a “composer of popular music,” which suggests a second option. But that doesn’t really delineate two ways of integrating rock and classical, just two kinds of composers—classical and popular.The last sentence, finally, presents two different ways of integrating rock and classical: a “version of popular music packaged to attract classical listeners,” one way, is contrasted against Glass’s method of “high art for listeners steeped in rock rather than the classics,” another way.Since the last sentence is the only one that really presents two ways to integrate rock and classical, it has to be the right choice.GRE Verbal Tips for Select-in-Passage QuestionsA key part of select-in-passage questions is choosing the best sentence. So if there are two sentences that both seem like they might kind of work, you need to assess which one answers the question in the most complete and direct way. Again, I can’t reiterate enough that using evidence from the passage is the essential reading comprehension strategy—you’ll know the best sentence because it will have the clearest evidence that it fulfills whatever criteria you need to select for.Similarly, when choosing a dog, choose the best dog.How to Study for GRE VerbalBefore you start preparing in earnest, there are two things you need to do: establish a baseline and set a goal score for the GRE Verbal Reasoning section.To establish a baseline, take a complete, scored Verbal section(that would be two subsections or 40 questions). I advise taking an entirePowerPrep test to set your baseline for the entire test anyways—it forms an essential part of any GRE study plan. But since we’re discussing Verbal right now, I’ll focus on Verbal. The Verbal score you get at the very beginning of your prep process is your baseline. Once you’ve established this baseline, you need to figure out a goal score.Your goal score for a given section just needs to be a high enough score to not be a barrier to admission. How do you figure this out? Look up the average GRE Verbal scores for all of the programs that you’re interested in. Take the highest number, add 1-2 points for safety, and that’s your goal score. You cansee more on setting a goal score here, including advice on what to do if your programs don’t give much score information.So once you’ve set a goal score, you can get a decent idea of how long you’ll need to study to bring your baseline up to your goal score. We have the following estimates for the hours it will take to improve a certain point amount:5 points = 40 hours10 points = 80 hours20 points = 160 hours30 points = 240 hoursSo if your baseline is 155, and you need to get up to 160, expect to spend about 40 hours studying.Once you’ve set a goal score, there are two overall prongs of attack you’ll need to consider when you prepare for the GRE Verbal section: content/skills (the underlying foundational material the GRE is testing) and strategy (how you actually approach questions and the overall test. We discuss how best to approach the two prongs below.No, I said two prongs, not two prawns!GRE Verbal Content and Skills PracticeThere are a few key content and skills areas to work on for GRE Verbal. We’ll detail each—and how to work on it—below.LEARNING GRE VOCABULARYA big part of GRE success is learning vocabulary. As you might imagine, it’s very hard to answer sentence equivalence and text completion questions if you aren’t familiar with any of the answers. Even beyond that, a strong vocabulary makes it much easier to parse the difficult passages you’ll be faced with for reading comprehension.Want to improve your GRE score by 7+ points?Check out our best-in-class online GRE prep program. Weguarantee your money backif you don't improve your GRE score by 7 points or more.PrepScholar GRE is entirely online, and it customizes your prep program to your strengths and weaknesses. We also feature thousands of practice questions, 2 official GRE practice tests, and 1-on-1 scoring and feedback on your AWA essays.Check out our 5-day free trial now:Get 7 More Points On Your GRE, GuaranteedThere are two parts to learning vocab: simple memorization and vocab-in-context. Both are critical parts of the vocabulary process.For simple memorization, your best bet is the friendly flashcard. We have our own flashcard PDF, as well as reviews of other flashcard sets you might consider. When you are drilling those cards, I recommendusing the waterfall method to ensure you’re really memorizing every word. If you want to be able to review your flashcards online, you can use Quizlet, although you can’t do the waterfall method with their interface so I recommend also making hard copies.You might think that after memorizing 1000 vocab flash cards that you’re all set. But that’s only part of the equation. You also need to make sure that you actually understand the words in context—so you know how to use them and how to understand them being used by others. This will also help you actually remember the words and what they mean.There are a couple things you can do to work on your in-context vocabulary. First, you can try writing out sentences with your vocab words to make sure you really know how they are used in context. You can also read high-level publications and make note of how the words you learned are used there. When you find yourself using the words in conversation or in writing fairly naturally, you know that you’ve really learned them.“Yes, I think Thor is indubitably the best Avenger!”READING COMPREHENSION FOR COMPLEX GRE PASSAGESAs you might imagine, the best way to improve your reading comprehension is to read a lot. But don’t just go for quantity—you should read things that are topically similar to what you’ll be faced with on the GRE. Try to read a diverse array of articles from publications with a high reading level like the Atlantic, the New York Times, the Economist, Nature, and so on. Because there are often science passages on the GRE, you can even try reading abstracts from scientific studies on PubMed. Can you figure out the main hypothesis and results of the study from the abstract, even if it’s in an area you aren’t familiar with?As you read articles, make sure you really understand what’s being said. What’s the main idea? What evidence does the author advance to support their position? Do they present any counterpoints? If you can understand the argumentative and rhetorical structure of complex articles, you’ll be all set for GRE Verbal Reasoning.IDENTIFYING SIGNAL WORDSSignal words and phrases tell youimportant contextual informationabout the sentence or passage—information that will help you select the correct answer. They are particularly critical elements for selecting the correct words in vocab questions, but can also help you quickly parse the meaning of complex passages.Signal words are usually transitions and indicate whether some previously presented piece of information is going to be supported, contradicted, clarified, and so on.Here are a few common groups of GRE signal words, what they signal, and a brief, simple example sentence:However/although – offering a caveat or mitigationAlthough the author was social by nature, he did not particularly enjoy book tours.Indeed/furthermore – offering further support or emphasisThe author was social by nature; indeed, he loved meeting hundreds of new people on book tours.By contrast/rather/instead – offering a different perspective, counterpoint, or purposeThe author was not social by nature; rather, he was forced into sociability by the necessities of book tours and signing.To practice your understanding of signal words, try to notice every time you think you see a signal word in what you are reading. Consider what the signal word is indicating.You might even keep a running list with the sentence, the signal word, and what it indicates in that sentence. Over time, you’ll develop your own base of signal word knowledge.This signal’s a pretty clear one, though.Study Tips for GRE Verbal Practice Questions and SectionsHere are my recommendations for using actual practice tests and questions to prepare for the GRE Verbal section.USE OFFICIAL MATERIAL WHEN POSSIBLEThe best material for Verbal practice questions will always beofficial ETS material. Since they make the test, their material is the closest to the real GRE experience. You can get complete official practice tests from the PowerPrep software, plus additional practice questions from their paper tests and online. (Check out our guide to the best Verbal resources out there.) You can also consider buying a prep book.TARGET YOUR WEAKNESSESWhen you complete practice GRE Verbal questions, tests, and sections, pay close attention to what you get wrong. The patterns of what you answer incorrectly will reveal anycontent or strategy weaknesses that you need to target to improve. Are you always missing sentence equivalence? Do science-themed passages confuse you? You’ll know to work on those things.PRACTICE PACING AND TEST STRATEGYIt’s critical that you practice staying on pace so that you can answer all the questions in the time allotted. To that end, be sure to take timed practice sections and monitor any areas where you’re losing too much time. In general, try not to spend too much time on vocabulary, since reading comprehension questions will naturally take longer due to the reading time involved.You also need to practice strategies for selecting the correct answer like working on your process of elimination skills.GRE pacing isn’t as fun as motorcycle race pacing, but it’s a similar concept.DEVELOP A CONSISTENT STRATEGY FOR PASSAGESIt’s critical that you come up with a strategy for approaching passages on the GRE that works for you. Having a consistent approach that you hone during prep will help you with time management during Verbal and increase your comfort level when faced with the GRE’s dense, complex passages.There are two solid strategies for approaching GRE passages and reading comprehension questions:Skim passage first: In this strategy, you’ll quickly skim the passage before reading the question. Then once you’ve read the question, you’ll look back in the passage for the details and evidence that you need to answer the question.Read question first: For this approach, you’ll read the question first, then read through the passage looking for the evidence that will tell you the right answer.Both of these strategies can work well for students and help them manage their time; making them work for you is mostly a matter of personal preference.Unfortunately, there’s also a third approach that, while commonly used, is not a good strategy. In this approach, you’ll closely read the passage first, trying to absorb every detail. Then you’ll read the question, and find that you still have to go back into the passage to find the answer. As you might imagine, this is an inefficient strategy that wastes a lot of time. Most of the details in the passage aren’t going to be important for an individual question, so getting too bogged down in trying to understand and remember them is totally unnecessary. If you’re going to read the passage first, just quickly skim it for the main points.My passage strategy is that I only read next to the beach.4 Common GRE Verbal Problems and How to Fix ThemIt’s critical to address your own particular weaknesses on the Verbal section, but there are a few weak points that are common to a lot of students. We’ve listed them below and suggested some ways to address them if they are issues that you have.Forgetting The Vocabulary You LearnedIf you find yourself forgetting large swathes of the vocab you drilled, it means you probably didn’t learn it in a very effective way (sorry). Did you complete both components of the vocabulary process mentioned above? Or did you just memorize without applying? Make sure that you have been both drilling flashcards effectively and learning vocabulary in context. See above for my recommendations on the best way to really learn and retain vocabulary.Running Out of TimeIf you are struggling to finish Verbal sections on time, the primary thing you need to do is figure out where you’re losing time. Are you primarily losing time on vocab, or reading comprehension? For vocab, it’s typically a waste of time to spend a long while agonizing over those questions—you typically either know the words, or you don’t. Read the questions very carefully and answer them to the best of your ability, but don’t spend 30 seconds staring blankly at the answers. If you find yourself doing this, try completing passage questions first, and then come back to the vocab.If, by contrast, you’re flying through the vocab questions but running out of time because you’re spending too much time on passages, yourapproach to passages may not be very effective. Are you spending too much time on your initial read-through? Are you overthinking what counts as “evidence” and overanalyzing every little word? Re-read our advice on passage strategy above for some tips on adjusting your approach.Of course, you could feel rushed because of a combination of vocab and reading comprehension issues, in which case, fiddle around with changing your passage strategy and answering vocab questions at a faster pace or after reading comprehension to try to figure out what works best for you.I, too, wish I had a rainbow hourglass to keep track of time for me at all moments.Being Torn Between Two AnswersThere is always a best answer choice on the GRE (except for multi-answer multiple choice, but then there’s no need to be torn!) If you frequently find that you can narrow your choices down to two, but then you can’t choose the final one, a couple things could be happening. If this is happening primarily on vocab questions, you may just not know the vocab well enough. Also be sure to consider word valence—based on context, does a positive or negative word belong in the blank? That can help a lot in differentiating answers.If this is primarily happening on reading comprehension, you need to hone your understanding ofidentifying evidence in passages.Only one answer will ever be correct based on clear evidence in the passage. This means you need to practice parsing the complex passages for the small details that point to the correct answer.Feeling Intimidated by GRE PassagesIf you find yourself doing well during low-pressure prep sessions but getting flustered by the long, complex passages during timed practice tests, work on staying calm. If all the practice test passages seem crazy-difficult , it’s possible that the material you’ve been reading isn’t difficult enough, or that you aren’t reading a big enough variety of sources. But it’s also possible that you’re just suffering from some test anxiety. In this case, maintain positive self-talk, take deep breaths, and know that you can do it.If you feel stressed, just think about adorable kittens.Taking the Test: 4 GRE Verbal Tips for SuccessWhen you actually take the test, here are some strategies to help you ace the Verbal section!Use Mark & Return LiberallyFriends, you get the same amount of points for easy questions as hard questions. What does this mean for your strategy? Do questions that you find easy first! If you look at a question or a passage and you think “ew, gross,” or you find yourself staring at it in blank confusion for more than a few seconds, mark that question and come back to it!Odds are that it will seem easier when you come back to it, and even if it doesn’t, at least you didn’t waste valuable time when you could have been getting easy (or at least easier) points.Answer Every QuestionThere’s no guessing penalty on the GRE, so it’s to your advantage to answer every question. Keep an eye on the time and when you have a few minutes left, quickly skim remaining questions and pick answers.When You Do Guess, Guess SmartTo the extent that you can avoid guessing randomly, you should. This means you should hone all of your educated guessing and process-of-elimination skills, then deploy them with a vengeance on the test! Every time you can eliminate a wrong answer, your chance of guessing the right one goes up.Keep Calm and Do What You PracticedDon’t get psyched out when you’re faced with the actual test. Trust that you’ve prepared all you can, and calmly implement all of your passage and question-answering strategies. Even if you feel like some questions are throwing you for a loop, maintain positive self-talk, take some deep breaths, and move on to another question. You can do it!Again, if you need to calm down, I recommend thinking about soft, adorable animals.2 Bonus Tips for a Perfect Score on GRE VerbalIf you’re really going for that 170 on Verbal, here are a couple additional tips to help you get there!Be Aware of What You Can Afford to Get WrongThe answer: not much. While a 170 on Quant usually requires a truly perfect raw score, though, you can usually get one question wrongand still get a 170 on Verbal. This leaves you with a very, very tiny margin for error.Laser in on Your WeaknessesIt’s always good to focus on your weaknesses when you’re preparing for a test, but if you want a 170, you need to pinpoint your weak points as exactly as possible. It’s not enough to know that you sometimes get tripped up by Sentence Equivalence—which Sentence Equivalence questions? Are you picking things that aren’t quite synonyms? Are you tripped up by multiple pairs of synonyms? To really figure out exact, specific weakness, you’ll probably need to do an enormous amount of practice problems so you can notice patterns in what you’re missing that are as specific as possible. Then, you can target those super-specific weaknesses and not be thrown on test day.I don’t advise including actual lasers in this process.Review: GRE Verbal Questions, Practice, and TipsHere’s what we reviewed in our total guide to GRE Verbal domination.There are five types of GRE Verbal questions:Vocab Questions:Sentence equivalence (choose two words that could both complete a sentence and give it a similar meaning)Text completion (fill in the blanks with the best word choices)Reading Comprehension Questions:Multiple-choice (choose the right answer)Multi-answer multiple choice (choose all correct statements)Select-in-passage (choose the right sentence in the passage)In preparing for GRE Verbal, your first step has to be establishing a baseline and a goal score. Then take the following steps.Review Content:Build your vocabularyGet comfortable reading complex materialLearn to identify signal wordsPractice:Use the best (official) materialTarget your weaknessesPractice pacing and strategy, like process-of-eliminationDevelop a strategy for passagesAddress Weaknesses:If you’re forgetting the vocab you learned, you probably aren’t drilling it very effectively.If you’re running out of time, you may be either spending too much time deliberating on vocab questions or your passage strategy isn’t very effective.Being torn between two answers is a sign that you need to further hone your vocabulary knowledge or your ability to pick out evidence in passages.If you feel intimidated by passages, it could be a sign either that you aren’t practicing difficult enough reading material or that you just have some test anxiety.Test-Day Success Strategies:Take advantage of mark & return to do the easier questions first and save the hardest ones for last!Answer every question—it can only help you.When you do guess, eliminate as many answers as you confidently can first.Keep calm and trust in the preparation you did!Extra Tips for a 170:Be aware of what you can get wrong and still get a 170. Usually, you can get one question incorrect and still receive that top score.When you’re prepping, laser-in on your weaknesses as specifically as possible.The bottom line is that if you follow good prep practices as outlined in this article, you can ace GRE Verbal!







Lyceum in mylapore is the best center for GRE in chennai. Princeton review centres at adyar and anna nagar are good. Apart from that there are few centres like Top Gre and Scoregetter which are reasonably good ( Though not very famous) You can always go with some online coaching like GREedge, Manhattan gre. All the best.







The Princeton Review : Overseas Admissions Guidance - GRE, GMAT, SAT, PSAT, SAT II, ACT, AP, IELTS, TOEFL Preparation







See! Most of them end up going to a particular institute because they have tie-ups with colleges and provide admission guarantee. If you think about it, it becomes a liability on them and they will get you admissions in any of the colleges just for the sake of it. Crackverbal according to me is a good institute as it focuses on giving a better coaching for a less cost and helps in guiding students which shows that they have the best interest in doing what they do.Here are couple of things I chose crackverbal for:1.I personally liked the faculty there as they have got a score more than 320 and are highly qualified.2. The way they approach vocabulary is very different and good.You'll also see the change when you join it; also it came into my budget. So crackverbal it is for me!!!







Princeton Review- No - 42/295, 2nd Floor Mrj Complex, Velachery Main Road, Velacheri, Near Vijaya Nagar Bus Terminus, Chennai - 600042Adele Vistas4GMATAscent EducationThey are all fairly good. If you want more, you may be interested in checking out the site that I work for- Top GRE Coaching Institutes in Chennai







In my personal view, regular classroom/coaching is not the best option. Instead, go for online preparation weather Kaplan , Manhattan or Princeton Review for Mock Tests. For regular practice, the best option is Magoosh- Complete one stop solution.Video tutorial/explanation for every type of question in quants and verbal. Special tips and tricks for AWA section. Moreover, it will keep a track on your practice and will point out your weaker areas so that you can improve timely. Sign up for a trial account, buy it if you like it.Magoosh Online GRE Prep







There are many options when it comes to GRE coaching in Chennai. And I am sure that every institute out there claims to be the best in what they do and offer.What I would recommend that you personally call them or visit the ones you have heard off and look into the service's that they offer and the cost of the program. Look into the reviews and them take a call.You may want to give ScoreGetter a call as well and compare with what others offer and I am pretty sure here you will get quality and value for money, with 14 online tests, 90 hours on the GRE training module and online lectures bundled with free Admissions counselling.Score score getter offers a unique program called the guaranteed admission process. In this unique program called g a p every student who applies is assured and admit into a University that matches their profile along with complete visa guidance to USA, Germany, Canada, New Zealand, Australia, Ireland, Sweden and NetherlandsShow more details visit ScoreGetter-Barron’s GRE GMAT IELTS CAT SAT TOEFL PTE USMLE Chennai







tl; drONE MONTH IS ALL YOU NEED.Long VersionThis answer is for the average person whose Quant skills are better than the Verbal skills + Vocabulary.I gave my GRE in December and I prepared for about 25 days. A little background, first. I’m a working professional so I obviously had to tackle work hours with my prep. Thankfully, I had a very understanding supervisor who relaxed the work timings; this spared me about 6–7 hours each day to study each day.There have been many answers, so I’m only going to describe in detail what I did differently and pertaining to the fact that I had prior commitments as well. My TOEFL exam was scheduled 4 days after my GRE exam and so I devoted some time to that too. This resulted in my GRE prep per day being restricted to just 5 hours.Verbal: Refer the following booksWord Power Made Easy: I CANNOT emphasize the importance of this book enough. Not only does this book give you a reference to the most used words in GRE (RC + TC), but it gives you a way to remember about 100 words per day. Playing with the roots of a word, each chapter introduces about 40–60 new words. The practice sections with each chapter are very easy to follow and use the associative memory techniques in order to help you memorize. Do two chapters each day and practice with the exercises given. The last section gives you a comprehensive list of the most common words of GRE. If you have even lesser time, just follow this last section and you’re good to go.Magoosh Flashcards: 1 Basic + 1 Common + 1 Advanced section each day. Revise the words learnt that you learnt the previous day. WRITE each unknown word down with the meaning and the sentence. I made the mistake of not doing this and had to repeat all the words. DO NOT BE LAZY. THIS IS NOT THE TIME. Ask your parents/ friends to help you with this. Make your own flash cards if required. I troubled my roommate each night with my list, though she was more concerned for my handwriting.Official Guide(s): I bought the ETS OG (GRE complete + Verbal). Try for second hand, as these can be costly and you might want to resell them as well. Do 60 Verbal questions each day. I followed 20 RC + 20 TC + 20 SE. Took 45–60 minutes for the whole thing. MAKE SURE YOU ATTEMPT EACH QUESTION OF THE OG AT LEAST THRICE. I mean it. Go for it with some gap between each pass. I used Manhattan as my break in between each OG completion.Manhattan 5lb : Logical RC section of this book is just AWESOME. Competes with the GMAT CR section. Do each verbal section. But one pass was enough for me, with mistake correction and revision, of course. This is true for all the above. If you’re not learning from your mistakes, the study is redundant. Cliched, but true.Quant: Now I was pretty confident about this section, but I like solving any math problem ( I’m applying for MS Statistics) so I used to come to this any time I felt exhausted with work or Verbal prep. Preferably follow the same technique - work on your less stronger section when you’re fresh and the other section that you can maybe do in your sleep as well.OG: Again, do each question thrice. Do not forget the Math Review. Each topic has at least 1 question that will leave you stumped. You will either do a calculation mistake or even if you get an answer right, you’ll choose some wrong answer because of some carelessness. I majored in this, though that was because I was always exhausted by the time I came to this section (which was in the evening after work). But this kind of made me used to being worked up, which was a plus considering the fact that I had quant as an experimental section (Yayy)Manhattan 5lb: Now since you have a month, you should only focus on the areas in quant in which you’re scoring less than 90% regularly. In ym case, I went for inequalities, data interpretation (since I was constantly making calculation mistakes) and geometry (coordinate and figures). I practiced all the questions in each section. Just prioritize while working on this because there are many subparts and you wouldn’t want to spend too much time on concepts you’re already good in.Again, I was pretty strong in this section so I focussed more on the former.Practice tests: You should have access to 2 OG full length practice tests and 2 Powerprep Software tests. The latter ones are most important, hence use them at special times. Apart from these, you can access 1 free practice test from Manhattan and 1 from Kaplan. Use all tests as diagnostic tests. Take each test on the day you can spare sufficient time for the diagnosis and replicate actual test conditions as much as possible. VERY IMPORTANT.Test 1 (Powerprep Test 1): Right before starting your prep. Figure out weak areas. Plan your timeline.Test 2 (OG Guide paper based 1): Week 1 endTest 3 (Manhattan): Week 2 endTest 4 (OG Guide paper based 2) : Week 3 endTest 5 (Kaplan): Week 4 2nd dayTest 6 (Powerprep Test 2): Week 4 End, preferably couple days before D-dayBy now, you should be thoroughly prepared. I know I was, even though I was constantly worried about vocab. That’s natural and I know that now. Consider it an omen of good luck.Some general tips :When giving mock tests, try to simulate actual test conditions. In the last mock, THIS IS A MUST. This means, if your scheduled exam is at 10 am, on the day of the mock, wake up at 6–7 am and get ready earlier. Keep a snack in hand and practice one extra section before ( there will be 1 experimental section in GRE exam that messes you up so much)Restrict your sleep to 6 hours. It’s only for a month and this much is needed.ACT sane. I mean act because you will feel exhausted ALL the time if you’re handling two-three commitments at a time, like I was. So it is natural that you would want to run like a madman at one time or shout at people just for taking your pen without your consent ( If not, maybe I need therapy. Let me know. I’m Ross with MY SANDWICH) So just act like you’re in a play and it’s for a month.Follow a TV show for the entire duration. Helps in maintaining consistency. And choose just 1 TV series that will last you for that entire month. It will help you focus, have a set routine and will prove to be a healthy distraction unlike social media websites. Be careful to restrict this to just 1–2 slots per day. I went with Narcos and watched it in parts ( 25 min each )In case you’re an amnesiac in making, like me, you might want to try almonds. 8–10 nuts a day. Almonds.Have friends around who will encourage you. Involve as many people as possible. Contrary to popular belief, it will help you in your prep since you can discuss with others and studying alone ALL the time will frustrate you. Have someone take your dictation, invent games for vocab like charades etc. Add to this their happiness when you receive a good score (which you will); they’ll feel like they were a part of your journey. Win-win!Put your target universities and scores in front of you so you feel a sense of motivation everytime you look up. I stuck these post-it notes on my wall so it was the first thing I saw when I woke up and the last thing before I went to sleep. Yes, yes. Stanford. LOL. My GRE target was 340. So.This is important so you don’t lose track to various distractions.8. Have fun. When it’s over, you’ll feel a sense of massive achievement. Such satisfaction, much wow. You might even miss it because it will be the single most focused thing you do before getting an offer from your dream uni.Hope this helps. Questions in the comments, please!







Blog link: - Prepare for the GRE in a month[DISCLAIMER] : If you are someone who is aiming at a 335+ score in GRE you should probably avoid reading this article as you would need a much more meticulous preparation for the exam. A month or less would be insufficient according to me. If you are looking at a score which is 320/325+ (which according to me is a good score)/ or if you are looking at a full score in quant you should probably continue reading. Also if you want to prepare for GRE in a month then this should be the only thing you should be doing for that month.If you are working/ at college you might need more time.PREPARING FOR THE GREAs the article suggests, I'm writing how to prepare for the GRE in a month so this is my strategy : Preparation for 25 days, Practice Tests for 4 days and Chill for 1 day (day before the exam). A lot of people book dates quite in advance and say they have 2-3 months to prepare, but even they end up studying only in the last month. By the end of your third year, you don't move your ass until its on fire. xD . So deal with reality, you might plan and make schedules/ to-do lists to start studying from 3 months in advance but you won't.QUANTITATIVE REASONINGI believe the level of questions that is asked in the GRE in QR is pretty low. For a person who has prepared for IIT/AIEEE these questions might appear very kiddish. However the catch here is that although the questions appear to be easy one has to be perfect in them. I believe a 170 in QR ( If I can get it , anybody can ) is easily gettable and is a big boost to your score. It means that you need to be perfect in all the questions that you answer and CANNOT afford to make even a single mistake. This is the trick: Keeping your calm, Solving and Marking EVERYTHING correctly, Trust me there is nothing that you don't know.I believe this should be your strategy:Preparation StrategyTake up one topic each day: Solve the same topic from "5 lb. Book of GRE Practice Problem " and from "1014 Practice Questions for the New GRE" . There will be about 15-20 topics in each book. So you should be done with that in about 20 days. Next take up " The Official Guide to the GRE Revised General Test, 2nd Edition" [Yes, Buy it] and finish up the Quant part of the book in 5 days. Voila! 25 days and you are done with Quant. There is no need to spend time doing the theory. Get straight down to the problems. If you get stuck in them and you need to know something from the theory just Google it and you will be done. For example while solving certain questions on circles you might need to revise certain properties and you can look them up as you are solving.Answering Strategy : 1 question 1 minuteIdeally this is what I believe: For the 20 questions asked in 35 mins. You should finish it in 20 minutes and take a good 15 minutes to go revise. Go through each question that you have answered and check if its correct. Do not panic if you cant do a question in a minute. Some might take longer and some maybe done in a few seconds. I believe the revision part is the key and it is this time that will ensure perfection. As I said Perfection (170/170) is the key.DATA INTERPRETATIONThis is something you might not have dealt with before or had lesser experience with as compared to geometry/arithmetic/algebra. This is again pretty easy. I would suggest that apart from solving this topic from the above books mentioned. Do solve the problems from these books. Click Here . Remember the wording of these questions might be a little tricky and so read the WHOLE question properly before you start answering. Also the "1 question 1 minute" might fail here but as I said there will be other questions that will finish in a few seconds.VERBAL REASONINGThis is a tough nut to crack. However, if you have your basic grammar skills right you shoud be able to score around 155-160 in Verbal. I personally scored 155 even though I had screwed up one section of Verbal and so I think you can easily score well in Verbal too if you have been practising diligently. I'll begin by talking about the Vocab Part.Preparation StrategyLEARNING WORDSLike it or not you have to do this. This is how I would want you to go about doing this. I recommend three sources :a) Barron's 800 Essential Word List - GRE (800 words)b) Android Apps on Google Play (1000 words)c) Barron & Kaplan GRE Words (514 words) (514 words)Start with (a) and (b) . Begin your day with 40 words from (a) in the morning. Do 40 words from (b) during the afternoon and before you go to sleep do (20) words from (a) . When you finish (a) you will be left with (b) and you will be at Adanced Level of (b) so you can allocate your time accordingly so that at the end of 20 days you are done with the 1800 words. I have planned for 100 words a day so you should finish in 18 days. Keep a buffer of 2 days in case things don't work some day.The memrise technique of learning through visual clues/memes is pretty interesting and helps you remember stuff.Remember: Before you begin with the 40 new words in the morning, REVISE the 40 you had learnt the earlier day in the morning. Before you begin with the 40 from (b), REVISE what you had learnt from (b) the previous day. Keep revising what you learnt before.At the end of 20 days you will be done with (a) and (b) . Now start with (c) . This will basically be a subset of (a) and (b). So this is revision. 100 words a day X 5 days, and you are done with (c). So, you are done with your vocabulary in 25 days.READING COMPREHENSIONThis according to me is the most crucial part. It is this which can make or break your GRE. For someone who's vocab is not that good, this becomes even more important. RC is nothing but just pure strategy and keeping your calm. You can only perfect this through practice and NOTHING else. The options are very confusing and you may get mislead, hence it is important that you keep practising every day. I would suggest that you keep doing 2 paragraphs a day. So in roughly about 25 days. You would have solved around 50 passages. If you need more practice you might have to increase that number but you CANNOT afford to take this up lightly.Solve RC from the following book: Big Book 27 tests. It has a series of 27 tests. Each has 4 passages : 2 long and 2 short. The Big Book is based on the Old GRE. in the previous GRE there used to be many more questions per passage. It would even upto 7 questions a passage. However, in the New GRE, there will be passages which have 1/2/3/4 questions. I believe that if you solve RC from the Big Book and are able to do it then you can easily crack the RC for the New GRE. You might find it tough initially , but keep solving and learning from your mistakes and one day you will be able to solve the Big Book passages with ease. Initially for about 5-10 days you need not time yourself but once you cross 10 days time yourself. You might also want to have a look at these books : 501 RC Questions / Manhattan RCTEXT AND SENTENCE EQUIVALENCE/COMPLETIONA good vocab is pointless if you don't know how to use it. After you have learnt your vocab keep practising from the following books: 501 SC Questions / Manhattan SC . Solve from these two books. Also you can have a look at the 5 lb pound book suggested earlier. Keep aside days 20-25 to prepare from the ETS Book. So in 20 days try and work maximum problems from the books suggested above. Then go on and take some time to solve questions from the ETS Book.Answering StrategyFor the verbal section you will have 20 questions in 30 minutes. My strength was RC so I dedicated a good amount of time to it. A quick advice: There will be questions which have 3 blanks to fill, do not spend a lot of time thinking on those questions if that is not your strong area. The chances of making an error is quite high. In the first section of Verbal I answered, I wasted a lot of time on it and when I looked at the watch I had 10 minutes left and 10 questions to finish and these were the bigger RC questions. Make sure you never reach such a stage. Know that the RC questions are going to take time and are lengthy. Finish them up first if you want to. Ideally you have 1.5 minutes for each question. So, a standard passage of 3 questions should definitely be done in under 5 minutes. Devise a strategy for yourself before you go on to Practice Tests based on your areas of strength.PRACTICE TESTSSo after around 25 days of prep you should be more confident in your prep and it's a good time to start writing practice tests . Write one a day in exactly the same time slot as you have booked your test slot. These are the 4 practice tests I would suggest.2 from the ETS CD you would have recieved when you bought the book1 Manhattan1 Princeton Review/Kaplan (Google it!)Follow all the rules and do it diligently as if it were a real tests. Analyse your mistakes and see were you went wrong. Keep improving and doing better. These were roughly my scores:1st Test - ETS - 3152nd Test - Manhattan - 3183rd Test - ETS - 3204th Test - Princeton Review - 322In the end , in the actual GRE I got 325 (V:155,Q:170, AWA: 5.0) . I believe I could have got around 328-330.Hope this post helps you in your prep / at least motivates you that you can prepare for GRE in a month if you do it whole-heartedly.Cheers.







Thanks for A2A1 month is more than enough if you are willing to put 4+hours preparation time per day.If you are from engineering background and aiming for MS in engineering then concentrate less on verbal, because more emphasis will be laid just on your Quant score for admissions. A165+ is an excellent quant score, and a 160+ is a good one. With one month dedicated preparation and the below strategy, 162+ is easily achievable.   To get an idea of exam, its better to complete this book:The Official Guide to GRE , Second edition. Its available in this link: https://drive.google.com/folderv...Firstly, below is a good strategy used by me and many of my friends and all of us managed to get 162+ in quant with approx 1 month preparation.1. Complete book number 3 and 5 in this link:https://drive.google.com/folderv...Time: 3day/book 2. Do Counting , Probability & Statistics, Permutations & Combinations from the book "NOVA MATHS BIBLE" in this link: https://drive.google.com/folderv...Time: 2-3daysAfter completing above 2 points, you will be in a position to easily score 160+ because usually the once's mentioned above are where we loose most marks.3. This is final stage. Start solving all quant's from the book "5 Lb. Book of GRE Practice Problems" (try to find ebook in the google drive links mentioned earlier) . Go from topics which you feel is difficult (like work , ratio etc) to easier onces (like functions etc) . Aim to finish 2topics/day, this way you can complete the whole book is 2weeks, depending on your speed.Time: 2 weeks depends on effort/day4. After all this if you still want to practice, you can use this book:  https://www.facebook.com/groups/...Time: 1 day5. What will help most is, taking 4 free full length exams from this link:Follow these steps to get free full tests:1. Go to http://www.princetonreview.com/c...2. Enter the ISBN as 9780307945648.3. Create an account on their site.P.S : The advantage of PR Tests is that they will grade your essays.!You can review each answer, plus they will review essay and give marks.Doing first 4 points will just help us in tackling all types of problems, but only while taking timed test, we will learn to solve problems in given time.Secondly, I would not suggest anything for verbal preparation. Its a waste of time to learn so many words.Many of us who studied around 250 words scored 150+, many of my friends had done 1500+ words and scored lesser than 150. Its purely luck.But if you have enough time and you wish to prepare well, you can do  "BARRONS 333 HIGH FREQUENCY WORD LIST"Its more than sufficient.Thirdly,  GRE-AWA is very very important.You have to get above 3/6, else universities will reject.People often neglect this and suffer.There r 2 types of essays:1)     Go through these samples:  http://www.testpreppractice.net/...2)     Go through these samples : http://www.testpreppractice.net/...Read 5-10 essays in above links and get a clue as to how to go about in the exam.Practice essays in all Princeton tests.Don’t skip any essay in any mock tests.Including,Powerprep.This much is more than enough to get 3+.Lastly, download ETS POWERPREP 2 SOFTWARE available in ETS website.Take the 1st test 3weeks before GRE.2nd test 1 week before GRE.Final score will be usually in between scores of these 2 tests.All the best! :)







Dear GRE aspirant,Here is a 30 Days GRE preparation plan which will be very helpful for your GRE preparation:Day 0: Make a meticulous hour-by-hour plan for the next 30 days.Here are the guidelines:Decide how many hours you are going to study on each of these 30 days. Create an hourly spreadsheet.Take stock of:The portion that you have completed and are confident about.The portion where you need to prepare more. It could be: Particular topics of the Quantitative section Specific question types (or sub-types) of the Verbal section.How many new words can you realistically add to your vocabulary in the next 30 days?Do you need to practice writing some essays for AWA?Using the above guidelines, create a list of study-items that you need to complete before GRE. Arrange as per priority. The list, understandably, will always be long regardless of when you begin your GRE preparation! Pick those items that can give you maximum bang for the buck.Map these work-items into the study hours decided by you for the 30 days.Plan to complete the most important of these items in the first 15 days.Do budget a little time for relaxation!Days 1- Day 15:Intense preparation phase. Try your best to stick to the plan that you have made. Use in-between hours to revise words and revise Quant topics, especially formulas/properties.Day 16: StocktakingYou would have developed a good regimen by now. Take stock of your progress with respect to the study-plan that you had created.Include study items that you feel are important for you to complete before your GRE. Schedule these tasks in the next 8 to 10 days.The next phase is essentially to develop:Time management strategyMental and physical stamina to sit focused through a four-hour test that switches between Quant, Verbal, and Essay-writing.These are achieved by taking a good number of mock GRE-style tests and full-length adaptive tests.Days 16-24: Mock Testing to Develop Time Management Strategy.Begin your practice by taking mock tests, separately for Verbal, Quant, and AWA.These tests should mimic the standard two-section (40 question) format of the ETS GRETry to take one or two such tests for Verbal and the same number for Quant. It will be good if you can do more.Try to write at least 3 or 4 essays on AWA Issue and AWA Argument. Get them evaluated by a Verbal expert.Use the rest of the time for a few study-items that you could not complete in the first fortnight as per your list.Continue to learn and revise words.In developing your time management strategy, make a mental note of: how much of time you should spend on a particular question type, what is the order in which you should answer the questions, and when is the right time to move on if a question takes too long.Days 25-30: Taking FLT(full length tests) to Develop Time Management Strategy and Simulate the GRE ExperienceReserve the last five days to take full-length adaptive tests. About 7 or 8 tests is ideal. Two of these should be the ETS PowerPrep tests, while the rest can be from a variety of reliable sources that provide the equivalent of GRE experience.You should take these tests to develop the necessary mental and physical stamina to sit through the close to four-hour GRE test.Note that each test can take 3.5 to 4 hours. It can be quite exhausting. It may not be possible to take more than two tests a day. You need to be mentally fresh before you take these tests, just as you would be on the day of the test. So simulate that mental preparedness and then give the test in the same frame of mind as you would if it was the actual test.After each test, analyze your performance, fine-tune your time management strategy, and identify your weak areas.Since time is at a premium at this stage, give priority to revising those items that you are confident of, where you just need to do a bit of revision.In the last week, revise word lists, deepen your existing knowledge, rather than trying to learn new stuff at this stage.Wishing you all the best!







One month is more than enough for your GRE prep.Here’s how you can finish your prep confidently in 20 days :QUANT:The quant section of the GRE is extremely easy, in my opinion. It is just basic 10th grade math without any twists or tricks in the questions, and hence the solutions are fairly straightforward. Make sure that you read the questions right, because whatever error might happen in the quant section might be due to reading the question incorrectly in a hurry.http://www.4deducationhub.com/ad...^ You can use this book to prep for your quant section. The questions are of a variety of types and there are about 30 chapters of maths. Even if you finish 2 chapters a day, you can hit your target in just 15 days.Remember that this is one section you can easily score in and HAVE to score in because the verbal is a bit tougher.VERBAL:Now, coming to the verbal section.GRE Flashcards - Android Apps on Google Play^ This is one app that you’ve got to have if you’re looking to get a decent score on the verbal section. It has a lot of words sorted into decks of 50 words each. Therefore even if you do one deck per day for 12 days, you can finish about 700 words in about just over two weeks.As far as practice for the verbal section is concerned, just concentrate on the reading comprehension questions, as they are a tough nut to crack.The trick to the verbal section is knowing the meaning to as many words as possible so that you can eliminate the wrong answers even if you don’t know the right one.AWA:Read a couple of AWA samples that are given on the ETS website. That should be sufficient to give you a hang of what the section demands of the test takers. This is not something you can prep for and have to improvise on the day of the exam. Once you have an idea on how to formulate your issue/argument, you just have the time to take care of. Spend a couple of minutes jotting down points which you will be making in your answer so that you don’t spend time on that whilst answering the question.Introduction to the GRE Argument Task (For Test Takers)Introduction to the GRE Issue Task (For Test Takers)^ Go through the sample responses. They’ll help massively.Remember that in the AWA section, the cogency of your thought process matters more than fancy vocabulary. Don’t expend time on fishing for alternative words, but rather make sure there’s clarity in the way your argument is structured.EXAM DAY:Don’t get stressed out. GRE is more an exam of patience and composure than quant and verbal. Be calm even if you don’t know the answer to a particular question. Also, this is an adaptive test. So the better you perform in a particular section, the better the chances of you securing a high scoring section next.Also, carry something with carbs, something like a snickers bar, to eat during the break. Your brain will be exhausted after the first half and will need the nutrients to get up and running. Drink some water, too.PRACTICE TESTS:Free GRE Practice Test OptionsGRE POWERPREP II Software (For Test Takers)These are four practice tests right here. One by Kaplan, two timed tests by ETS and one untimed test by ETS.These can help you practice and see if you’re hitting your targets.One tip : take the Kaplan test before you start prepping as they give an analysis at the end of the test about the areas that you’re weak in. This will be telling of which areas need concentration more than others during the course of your prep.I hope that helps.All the very best! Cheers!







One month preparation might seem a bit difficult for a few but again it is not impossible. There are several online prep courses such as Magoosh’s one month course plan, Manhattan prep (You will get set of 8 books) etc. These courses are like crash courses and have all the materials split for 1 month such as question banks, practice papers etc. Preparing for GRE (verbal section + analytical section + AWA) in one month is going to be really tiring though. You may also start from Official guide to GRE to get an idea related to this exam since you are starting from scratch.For the quants section you should be well versed with topic such as linear equations, statistics, probability, algebra, fractions, data interpretation, simple interest, compound interest, profit loss etc. There are question related to all of the topics and they follow a certain pattern. So this understanding of the patters will only come to you with practice.It is an added advantage for you that you have a bachelor’s degree in English. Preparing for verbal section would be a lot easier in your case. For the verbal section you need to master at least a 1000–1500 words (Barron’s essential words) with their implementation and correct usage. You will need to solve RC passages, do argument analysis etc. For this task also you will need to be a voracious reader so that you practice these spheres effortlessly.GRE does not test anyone's ability to remember, memorize but it tests execution of your understanding. So keep practicing sedulously and thoroughly and make sure you time your progress because time is very important aspect of this Exam. So if you feel you are getting stuck a particular question do not waste your time hovering over it. Move on! And please practice a minimum of 5–6 sample papers before you attempt your final paper. Good luck!







I have tutored many students start to finish over 5 to 8 week time frames, so one month would be considered challenging, but not impossible. Obviously the better understanding of the content, the easier it will be to accomplish. I would typically recommend that you start with a practice test to get a sense of where you are relative to where you want to be. One of the two free and official tests available with the Power Prep II software is your best option. At this point you want to set very specific goals. One of the worst mistakes I see a lot of students make is going into the GRE looking to do "the best they can." Research the programs where you want to apply and find out the median GRE scores of accepted applicants. This is important because if you need to break a specific score plateau to get into the program and schools you want, then you should set your score goals accordingly. If you need a 160 on each section of the GRE, it can be a great disservice to try to score a 170. Rather than spreading yourself too thin trying to get everything right, it makes the most sense to set specific targets of right answers that correspond with your score goals. Thus, if your score goal corresponds to roughly 15 right answers out of every 20 question section, then you should make it priority #1 to find and answer 15 questions correctly in every section. That's not to say you shouldn't answer every question but you should recognize that you can afford to get 5 wrong and if you don't know how to approach a particular question on test day, you might be best served guessing it quickly and banking the remaining time into other questions where you have a better chance at a right answer.Once you have baseline scores in hand and know what kind of improvement you need to do, the next step is to tackle the fundamentals. Most of the facts and formulas tested on the GRE are on the Quant side so most GRE study plans tend to be a bit lopsided in favor of the quant. That's because there are lots of arithmetic, algebra and geometry facts and formulas that could be tested on. They aren't all tested equally, however, so make sure you pay attention to high yield concepts like ratios, classic quadratic equations and special right triangles. From the beginning of your course you should also make a point of studying high frequency vocabulary words. Most GRE books and websites will have a list of 100 to 500 words that you should master. Six weeks won't make you a vocabulary whiz but you can fill in some of the more glaring holes in your word knowledge. You should spend at least your first two weeks on the content. If you find it's taking much longer, you may have to postpone taking the test because without the fundamentals there's no point in going further.Once you have got the content down the next step is to transition into test strategy. You should master the various ways of answering multiple choice questions like plugging in numbers and working backwards and look for ways to employ these strategies. It can help to answer the same question in a few different ways and compare. As you do this, it is critical to remember that the GRE is mainly a reasoning test, so you should always try to think first and employ logic and avoid just jumping into rote calculation. This middle period is also the time to start working through your solving methods for some of the most common word problem types: overlapping sets, rates, weighted and unweighted averages, combined work, inverse variation and others. The GRE heavily favors word problems and so learning how to solve stereotypical problem types will lead directly to points.On the verbal side, you should make a point of establishing timing guidelines for reading comprehension passages and questions. You should also learn the various types of questions that come with reading comp and the trap answers that accompany those question types. This knowledge doesn't take that long to acquire but recognizing question types, employing the proper techniques for answering them and avoiding common trap answers is a skill perfected only with extensive practice. You should also give yourself at least a few days of study to learn and master the logical reasoning questions. These are very different from standard reading comp, though they are usually lumped in with them. I find that most GRE prep books don't provide enough logical reasoning instruction or practice, so you may want to investigate some GMAT or LSAT critical/logical reasoning resources, since these question types are virtually identical to what you will find on the GRE and they have been staples of the GMAT and LSAT for years.  The stage of strategy learning and mastery should take you about two more weeks.  In the final two weeks, you should transition into full practice. Of course CAT practice tests are the gold standard for practice but they are also harder to come by and you should plan when you take them carefully. You should take the second Power Prep test either halfway through your training or a week before you take the test, since it's so valuable. If you need more computerized practice, check out the online or CD Rom resources that come with your books. Paper tests aren't the best option but can be helpful if you are able to be strict with your timing.One of the best ways to practice without using up your resources too quickly is the 5 question drill. In general your timing needs to be flexible on the GRE as some questions will simply take longer than others to solve. That said, you should maintain an average speed per question. The 5 question drill is a compromise between those two divergent aims. For the quant section you should complete 5 questions every 10 minutes and for verbal every 9 minutes. How you use that 9 or 10 minutes is up to you, so long as you complete the string by the end of the timing--even if that means guessing the questions for which you have no idea. So a great way to practice timing and strategy is to continuously work through strings of 5 questions in the required timing until you get a feel for the general pacing of the test and the types of tough in-test decisions you'll have to make to succeed. You should also use these drills to really put a heavy focus on accuracy and avoiding careless mistakes. Make sure you are reading questions carefully, calculating carefully and considering alternative solving strategies when your chosen solving method seems too long and involved.As you approach the test, make sure you spend some time on areas that you may have neglected. Practice your strong areas so that you can keep your confidence high and avoid being rusty in these areas. Choose your templates and timing guidelines for the essays. Make sure to practice the sentence completions, particularly questions on which you don't know all of the words and have to work around tough vocabulary--as this will happen on test day. You should begin to visualize the conditions of the test itself: the testing center, the order of the test (essays first, then the 5 quant and verbal sections), the clunky onscreen calculator you will have. Try to take your last practice tests in a computer lab or library to more closely recreate this experience. In the final days make sure you have your admission ticket and know how to get to the testing center. Finally, don't study the night before the test--get good rest and review your mental game plan.Good luck!







First have a close look at what GRE actually consists of, GRE   1. Quantitative section deals with basic and general mathematics that we were taught in high school and it requires a strong conceptual knowledge in the subject. To master the quantitative section you need to practice the basic mathematics i.e. Math’s of class 11 and 12. But in GRE only the basic conceptual application based problems are asked and I would suggest you to really get some help from a institute that provide proper GRE coaching/training. IF you have good basics in mathematics then I suggest you to avoid going to any classes and simply buy a correspondence package from some reputed institute. The pattern of GMAT CAT and GRE is very different so please don’t try to practice from any book, Plan and work.   2. The verbal section involves grammar, reading comprehensions and vocabulary knowledge. Verbal section is very important for students applying for grants and fellowship in order to get funding for their education abroad. A high verbal score provides the university with a sense that yes the candidate has a decent command over the language and can be a useful resource to a professor.Clearly from above you can easy see how familiar the topics are to you. You use them in your daily life and education. It all comes down to how strong your basics are. But considering the time period of just 1 month, its way less. You are taking a pure gamble and if it pays off then kudos to you.But generally one must not take such risks and should plan their studies in advance. Atleast 1 yeear is required for an average student to ace this test, by that I mean to get atleast 320+ score.But you clearly have enough knowledge in English vocab and that is like the half of the exam. All it is left for you to master is the Quant section. Since you have studied only English in your undergrad education this means that you have not touched basic maths for like 3 years.So according to me you should go around the planning somehow in this manner,1.Jot down the topics that you thin you have no control over, do the same with the topics you have most control over.2. First we will do what we think that we have much control over. So pickup books like Manhattan Prep guide, Barrons guide to GRE or ETS guide of GRE and start attempting these questions once you thorough with these topics move forward.3.Now assuming that you spent like 5 day doing the topics you already have control over, you have like 25 days left from which take out 5 more days for your Vocab revision and Mock tests.4. You are left with 20 days, from this take out 15 days for the Quant topics you dont know at all, do the same books as mentioned above but try to do some examples of RD Sharma here and there. You dont have to focus solely on this book but it will be good if you get some extra practice under your belt.5. For the rest of the 5 days just revise whatever you learnt, its very important!Happy preparing!Make sure to check out our app VOLT on Google play store. It now has over 1.1 lakh downloads and has amazing cool features that will make your verbal section easy and interestingVoLT: Vocabulary Learning Technique, helps student prepare for Verbal and Vocabulary section of competitive exam.Link for download VoLT - Vocabulary Learning - Android Apps on Google Play







GRE Math Review TopicRelevant Section on Khan Academy SiteARITHMETIC1.1 IntegersArithmetic: Multiplication and DivisionArithmetic: Negative Numbers and Absolute ValuePre-Algebra: Factors and Multiples1.2 FractionsArithmetic: Fractions1.3 Exponents and RootsArithmetic and Pre-Algebra: Exponents, Radicals, and Scientific Notation1.4 DecimalsArithmetic and Pre-Algebra: DecimalsAlgebra I: Ratios and ProportionsSee "Rational and Irrational Numbers" subsection.1.5 Real NumbersArithmetic and Pre-Algebra: Negative Numbers and Absolute ValuePre-Algebra: Applying Mathematical ReasoningSee "Inequalities: Greater Than and Less Than Basics" subsection.1.6 RatioAlgebra I: Ratios and Proportions1.7 PercentArithmetic and Pre-Algebra: DecimalsALGEBRASections 2.1 through 2.9Algebra I: Introduction to Algebra2.1 Operations with Algebraic ExpressionsAlgebra I: Multiplying and Factoring Expressions2.2 Rules of ExponentsAlgebra I: Exponent Expressions and Equations2.3 Solving Linear EquationsAlgebra I: Linear equationsAlgebra I: Systems of Equations and Inequalities2.4 Solving Quadratic EquationsAlgebra I: Quadratic Equations2.5 Solving Linear InequalitiesAlgebra I: Linear Inequalities2.6 FunctionsAlgebra I: FunctionsAlgebra II: Functions and Their Graphs2.7 ApplicationsPre-Algebra: Applying Mathematical ReasoningAlgebra I: Ratios and ProportionsSee "Advanced Ratios, Proportions, and Rates" subsection.2.8 Coordinate GeometryAlgebra I: Two-variable Linear Equations and Introduction to FunctionsAlgebra I: Systems of Equations and InequalitiesAlgebra I: Quadratic Equations2.9 Graphs of FunctionsAlgebra II: Functions and Their GraphsGEOMETRYSections 3.1 through 3.6Geometry: Introduction to Euclidean GeometryGeometry: Perimeter, Area, and Volume3.1 Lines and AnglesGeometry: Introduction to Euclidean GeometryGeometry: Angles and intersecting lines3.2 PolygonsGeometry: Perimeter, area, and volumeGeometry: Angles and intersecting lines3.3 TrianglesGeometry: CongruenceGeometry: SimilarityGeometry: Right triangles and trigonometryGeometry: Perimeter, area, and volume3.4 QuadrilateralsGeometry: QuadrilateralsGeometry: Perimeter, area, and volume3.5 CirclesGeometry: CirclesGeometry: Perimeter, area, and volume3.6 Three-Dimensional FiguresGeometry: Perimeter, area, and volumeDATA ANALYSIS4.1 Graphical Methods for Describing DataPre-Algebra: Applying mathematical reasoningSee "Reading and Interpreting Data" subsection.8th Grade (US): Data and modelingSee "Scatter Plots" subsection.4.2 Numerical Methods for Describing DataProbability and Statistics: Descriptive statistics4.3 Counting MethodsProbability and Statistics: Probability and combinatorics4.4 ProbabilityProbability and Statistics: Independent and dependent events4.5 Distributions of Data, Random Variables, and Probability DistributionsProbability and Statistics: Random variables and probability distributionsProbability and Statistics: Inferential statisticsSee "Normal Distribution" subsection.4.6 Data Interpretation ExamplesPre-Algebra: Applying mathematical reasoningSee "Reading and Interpreting Data" subsection.







Disclaimer: This works only if you are willing to give it the time it requires. Please do not expect a quick fix.The thing about the GRE is it's a marathon and not a sprint.The best thing about the GRE is, it can be beaten.Ok enough of the speech and now let's get down to business.GRE has two parts :EnglishQuantitative aptitudeSince quantitative aptitude is quite easy we will talk about it later, though briefly.Now coming down to the English. The thing is you need to master the following to kick ass in the English section.Reading long passages and being able to make some sense out of it.Recognizing arcane words and be able to guess the meaning of arcane words if you are not already familiar with them.We can do both of these thing simultaneously.The internet solves our problem here.We just need two websites to handle this issue.Arts & Letters DailyDictionary / trainer - Vocabulary.comArts & Letters Daily - This is the mother lode of all the best articles on a variety of topics which they collect from the internet. The topics range from science to arts and so on.Vocabulary.com allows you to make word lists and practice them. Yup I am aware many websites let you do this. The catch is the words which need to be added to the list can come from a paragraph.So the trick here is...Everyday you pick up one article from Arts & Letters Daily and read it from top to bottom. Yup it will be hard to grasp, but you will have to deal with it initially. You can go through it a few times to make some sense out of it.Once done you need to copy the whole passage and paste into the word list creator at Vocabulary.com. This will be a holder of the words you did not know. Once it is done you can learn those words and revise them.Now keep adding words to the list in a similar for a whole week.And keep revising them too.After a week make a whole new list, since you don't want the list to be huge. It will be difficult to test yourself over a large list.If done sincerely for a month or two, with minimal effort you'll be kickin ass at GRE English.For quant , sheer practice will get it done for you.I have not given the TOEFL so can't help you there.Cheers..Have fun learning awesome shit.







Based on the material I studied from and few of my acquantaces used , in addition to what could be the better ways of absorbing them :GRE: Primary focus being on English: 1. Word Power made easy. Excellent book and reccomended by almost everyone I asked. It not tell you the word meanings , but roots and lots of practice. Enhances your vocabulary and also builds up your acumen for picking up related and new words faster. Try to start with it asap, doing some sections at a time- as suggested in the book. and see if you can give it a second attempt some time before exam.2. ETS Official guide for GRE : I tried doing a practice paper, initially before starting my preparation. benefit was that I realized which math topics were my weak areas. and what all needs to be covered for GRE in all teh sections.English and Maths sections are actually close to GRE level and should definitely be practiced before exam.3. For word lists I used Jamboree's (coaching institute) word list, which had the advantage of grouping synonyms, antonyms close together so that you can contrats their meaning. there were around 14-15 word lists and I think most of the words in GRE were seen by me in them. Its easier to learn them if you do these regularly and repeatedly. So pick these up asap.Also, these need to go hand in hand with other material , since doing long sets of word together was very difficult for me.4.  other books used by my friend were : Kaplan's (I used it for some excercises and sample papers for english), Princeton Review and Baron for wordlist.Powerprep II software : for practice testMaths : nothing specific just some excercises from sample , review of weak topics from internet or old material.6. AWA: Practice articles from GRE samples and test and looked at some articles from ARCO essay book, but it was too much. read only some articles.7. Also I used some GRE word list practice app on the way to practice on my time travelling. Doing words from multiple source definitely helps by reinforcement.TOEFL:1. Official guide was quite sufficient 2. Toefl software 3. I think I practiced from  Jamboree book on toefl but not too much. Primarily for listening and speaking as far as I remember. but would depend on your choice. I used to record the speaking section and then listen to it. It was quite important because you have to think and write in a very small amount of time. So practice that. Do make points while listening to the recording, so that you dont miss out stuff. Also remember that you would be in a noisy environment, where others would be speaking while you are writing or listening. Bre prepared for that. In my case, I wanted to speak on a topic against the motion, but I heard someone speaking for it and I got distracted and wrote in favour.Hope this helps. Do take in mind the exam conditions at your center. they did affect my performance. But I managed a score of (320+4.5/110)







If u prefer self study and looking for good study materials for your prepartion that can fetch u a good score in GRE then have a look on the below mentioned materials.I assure the quality of the materials is top notch.Pdfs include:-1 - The Princeton Review - Cracking the GRE premium 2018 edition2 - Manhattan latest - 4th edition (8 books)3 - Barrons new GRE 19th edition4 - Kaplan GRE preparation 2019 - latest edition.5 - Grubers Complete GRE Guide - 4th edition.6 - ETS official Guide to GRE7 - ETS Official GRE Quantitative Reasoning practice questions8 - ETS official GRE verbal practice questions9 - Magoosh videos of Verbal,AWA nd Quant (200+)10 - Manhattan preparation GRE Flash cards (1003 pages)11 - 501 series which include:-501 Critical reasoning questions501 Reading comphrension questions501 Grammar and Writing questions501 Sentence completion questions501 Synonyms and Antonyms Questions12 - GRE verbal made easy by barron13 - Word lists by majortest. com (15 pdfs)14 - Common error in english usage15 - Manhattan prepartion 5lb book of GRE practice problems.16 - The Ultimate Guide to GRE Alzebra which include 700 real GRE questions with lucid analysis.Arithmetic which include 1250 real GRE questions with detailed explanation.17 - Magoosh GRE Vocabulary Flash Cards.18 - Master the GRE CAT by Acro Petersons.19 - Wren and Martin20 - RS Agarawal Quantitative aptitude21 - ETS paper based revised GRE practice Book.22 - Mcgraw's Hills GRE premium total test preparation program 6 practice tests.23 - Novas GRE maths Bible24 - Word Power made easy25 - SP Bakshi objective General English26 - Kaplan GRE writing wokbook- 3rd edition ( 844 pages)27 - 15000 useful phrases.28 - Magoosh Complete Quant covering 900+ questions with detailed answers.29 - 501 Word analogy and Writing Prompts.30 - Wiley English31 - 3 model question papers of GRE by Ramki's Ultimate Guide.32 - Magoosh 580+ Quant Questions with answers33 - Barrons GRE high frequency 333 words Vocublary list.34 - 100+ Novels35 - English Grammar secrets by Caroline Brown and Pearson Brown36 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Advanced words Flash cards.37 - Kaplan GRE verbal book38 - The Princeton Review word smart for the GRE.39 - Memory techniques by Krupa40 - ETS GRE BIG Book which include 27 test with answers41 - The Ultimate Guide to Analytical Writing which include:-* Essays on Issues - Lesson and Model essays on 50 Topics* Essays on Arguments - Lesson and model essays on 10 topics.42 - Sample SOP and LOR43 - list of Universities which accept GRE.44 - Barrons Audio Vocabulary ( 14 audio clips)45 - Kaplan writing topics46 - ETS mathematical conventions for the Quantitative Reasoning Book47 - The GRE uncovered - Introduction to GRE by Manhattan48 - Flash cards of Barron 320049 - Magoosh 1000 pdf of common high Frequency words.50 - 501 Quantitative Reasoning questions with answers51 - 1000 Reading comphrension1000 Sentence correction52 - RC 99 by Aristotle53 - Ace the GRE writing Assessment by Acro Petersons54 - VISA Preparation55 - Vocabulary with Pictures56 - KAPLAN Quantitative Reasoning57 - Cliffs Test preparation GRE CBT ( 6th edition)58 - Guide to Geometry which include 8 identified categories with 1240 authentic examples.59 - Barrons GRE common prefix with meaning and illustrations.60 - Ample amount of practice materials for AWA and verbal.61 - Aristotle GRE verbal GRAIL.62 - Nova's GRE prepartion course63 - Princeton new GRE verbal workout64 - Ramki's The Ultimate Guide to Verbal reasoning which include:-Reading comphrension - 380 real GRE questions with answersText completion - 435 real GRE questions with answersSentence Equivalence -120 real GRE questions with answers65 - Magoosh Complete guide to Vocabulary66 - Barrons 6 GRE practice tests.67 - Kaplan GRE Premier with 6 practice tests.68 - ETS GRE general Test Practice book69 - Manhattan prepartion 500 Maths flash Cards (998 pages)70 - GRE full tests for Practice ( 36 Tests with answers)71 - 1014 Practice questions for the new GRE by Princeton Review72 - Manhattan New text completion supplement73 - A student's introduction to English Grammar by Rodney Huddleston and Geoffre K Pullum.I am selling the above mentioned materials at a very nominal amount of Rs 200.U can pay through any of these mobile wallet:- Paytm,Bhim, Phonepe,Tez etc.So interested one (only Indians) can ping me on Whatsapp 7737428150.







For GRE:1. 1100 Word List by Barrons. Excellent method to teach word usage and not just word alone. I got only 2 words which were not in actual exam. GRE test you word usage and not just vocabulary [1]2. ETS Official guide for GRE: None of my practice RC were as difficult as actual GRE. ETS guide comes close to it. Must have. 3. Powerprep II software: Whatever you score in Powerprep II, you can expect + or - 4 in actual exam. I got one question similar to a question I got incorrect in Powerprep II. I quickly solved that question in exam because I was able to recall why it went wrong in Powerprep II.4. Manhattan 5 lb. : Enough material to practice and master Quant. The verbal section has excellent explanation.Remember, if you want to score well in GRE, try to avoid mistake. I learned much through my mistakes rather than correct answers. I used to maintain an Error Log, writing why a question went wrong. Then I tried not to repeat at least that mistake.For TOEFL:1. Official Guide to TOEFL (although I didn't follow it)2. The TOEFL software that comes along with Official guide is what I used to learn. 3. Videos by Notefull were really helpful, as I learned to create template for my response [2][1]http://berta.ir/wp-content/uploa...  [2]NoteFull TOEFL Mastery







Here is what I followed for my preparations:GRE:1. Magoosh tutorials and its 90 day plan (you can get many magoosh items for free also)2. Find out how strong your vocabulary is and learn new words at Vocabulary.com. and its GRE word lists. Install the app in your mobile and learn on the go! 3. Barron's 500 or so word lists (I don't exactly remember which one. I read 2/3 lists and prepared with those) and Kaplan too4. Comprehensive reading  from Kaplan. I also found a random set of 180 comprehensive reading questions on the internet, I found the questions good so studied those.5. ETS practice tests and questions. These are a must.6. Couple of mock tests from online institutes. Many institutes give 1 or 2 free and rest you have to purchase: I completed the free ones from 3/4 sites so had enough of mock tests.7. Novels and online papers (The economist, NY Times), occasionally8. Writing practice from among the sample questions included in ETS site itself. The list is exhaustive and has many questions so you don't look to look elsewhere for writing. Just have some people who can review your writing and grade them.TOEFL:I believe if you have decent english, you don't need to prepare much. Just see the question/task structure from sample tests and practice. For some structural practice, Noteful in Youtube (Page on youtube.com ) is a great resource.







A2ANo ! 319 is not enough for MS in CSE at these schools. You might get an MS/MEng at these schools, but not in MS in CSE, given most of the Indians apply for MS in CSE only to the US. I know one of my acquaintance getting CMU for MEng in Civil for 318 (170/170 Q, 148V, 101TOEFL, BTech IIT BHU). But I do know an acquaintance who didn't get Stanford and MIT for MS for a GRE score of 333 and TOEFL 117. He was AIR 300 something in JEE and 9.3+CGPA at IIT Delhi. In short, GRE alone will not decide your admit. But given the pool of highly qualified candidates already available for these universities (you mentioned), you might not even clear first round of filtering. Either apply to universities suitable for your score or consider re-taking GRE. I don't know about rest of your profile, so this is what I can tell you based on GRE score alone. For further idea, you may refer to GRE Universities - Revised GRE UniversitiesBest wishes !







Good/ Bad is a very relative term. This depends on where you want to go and what you want to do. If you are targeting a top 20–30 Universities then this is indeed a low score. Again you have to bear in your mind that US Universities do go through your whole profile so if you have a really good profile throughout or some really interesting projects or SOP, recommendation letters they will surely consider you.All the best.







Hi A good score is one that takes you to the school of your choice. GRE score is a part of your overall application and the importance of the score varies from program to program. Some schools simply require you to take the test and don't give much importance to the GRE score. On the other hand, some schools consider the score deeply for the admission and grant purposes. Assuming you score equally in both verbal and quant, 290 will imply a percentile below 30 scaled score. I suggest you to research more about the program you are interested in. You may contact the school and check how does the school interpret the GRE score. Doing so will give you a clearer insight into knowing if 290 is a good score. :) Best!Dolly







319 is definitely a good score in GRE. Having said that, your preferred major and the kind of universities you wanna get into matter a lot when answering this question. Overall, with this score, irrespective of the major, you should stand a good chance in most of the good universities, even some of the top most universities provided you have an overall good profile( undergrad percentage, publications, work experience if any, extra curriculars, SOP, LORs and TOEFL). All the best!  







NCSUThe average GRE scores (percent scoring below) of international applicants recently admitted to graduate study in the Department are: Verbal Reasoning 64%, Quantitative Reasoning 94%, and Analytical Writing 42%. The average GRE scores of recently-admitted US applicants are: Verbal Reasoning 77%, Quantitative Reasoning 81%, and Analytical Writing 57%. All three sections of the GRE are considered when evaluating applicants.Source NCSU/CSC:Graduate ProgramCornellApplicants who have taken the GREs and are accepted into the program almost all have a Quantitative score in excess of 740, have scored in a high percentile in the Analytical Writing portion, and have above-average Verbal scores.  Median scores of recent MEng class:  680 (165) Verbal, 800 (166) Quantitative, 3.50 Analytical.Source Admission - School of Operations Research and Information Engineering - Cornell EngineeringUPenn.Average GRE Scores Test Master's students GRE Verbal 155GRE Quantitative 155GRE Writing 4Source Class Profile: 2014-2015Nothing officially given by UW-MadissonHowever even if you achieve these scores theirs no compulsion that you will get selected. Selection process depends of various other prospects as well such as your academic profile etc.







Hello,Thanks for the A2A.Instead of sounding ambiguous- I would have to concede that it's indeed a poor score- try to retake it. You haven't mentioned the break-up of your individual section scores- the Quantitative part; the Verbal part; and the AWA part. Secondly, what kind of universities/schools are you targeting? Be confident, practise well and attempt the GRE again- you will come up trumps!Best Regards,Srinivas.







299 can't be called a decent score in general, but it really depends on for which course in which university you are applying and how impressive your profile is.GRE is kind of a screening test. Universities screen applications on the basis of GRE score.Most Good Universities ask for a score above 320 only then they'll open your file.Some other good Universities combine your GRE and some other scores into a consolidated score to screen applications.After the screening it all depends on your profile, your achievements, the SOP etc.If possible, try to get a score above 320, otherwise, you can probably still get admission in Northwest Missouri State University at this score (for example).







A score above 310 in the GRE is considered to be good. But, to use your GRE scores to your advantage, you will have to ensure that all the other components of your application support them. For example, you must write a good essay, while following certain unsaid rules related to them. Get yourself a genuine recommendation letter from an eligible recommender, who knows you pretty well. In short, avoid any type of error or casualty in your application. Good guidance from experienced people can help you ensure that you give your best. You can fetch some really good help from the following link. Admission in Top Graduate Schools in USA.







Thanks for a2a.You can check my past Quora answer.Antra Anapindi's answer to Does preparation for GRE really require going to coaching centres? Would online coaching or self study not be enough?Best of luck.







First of all, I’m guessing by a high score you mean 330 - 340. Do not at all get afraid by all the propaganda that it is something extremely tough to achieve. It is not.I am not someone extraordinary. I failed countless, meaningless exams in my life. I have never been a topper or even close to that. So trust me, when I say, it is an extremely achievable target.Like any successful recipe, this also begins with some ingredients:Magoosh GRE Material (Verbal and Quants)Manhattan 5 lb. bookManhattan Mock Test Series (A set of 6 mock tests)Magoosh Flashcards (Available for free)Official ETS MaterialConfidence that you can do itGive yourself 2 - 3 months for preparation. Prepare a timeline.First things first, complete the Magoosh GRE Material videos. Both Verbal and Quants. They will take you quite some time. But they will be more than helpful in jogging old memories and clearing out the rust on those 10th standard mathematics that are already there but have been dormant being unused.Understand more importantly the process they are following to solve. Mathematics will follow straightforward logic, whereas Verbal might seem a little illogical at first, but really it is not. For Verbal it is VERY important to know the EXACT meaning of the words (Where constant practice from Magoosh Flashcards will help you) and also the structure and overall meaning of the sentence provided. Once you start getting the hang of it, you will start to understand the meaning and tone of the sentence, both in Reading Comprehension passages and Text Completions.Next, you MUST complete the ETS Official Guides, all 3 of them. There will be 2 mock tests provided in the book. Make sure you complete them and try to bring a score of +/- 2 from your target score. For example, for me the target score was 330, so I targeted for 328 - 332 in the ETS mocks.Next, the Manhattan 5 lb. book will be immensely helpful. Practice as much as you can each day. Doing BOTH Quants and Verbal. Complete the book by doing each and every problem and going through the answers that you did wrong or had confusion in. Also, make timelines (I did every alternate day) and give the 6 mocks one by one from Manhattan during this period. These mocks are a lot harder than actual GRE, so if you are scoring 318 - 322, expect a high score in GRE.Last but not the least, read, understand and memorize the words from Magoosh Flashcards. They will come extremely handy when you’re doing RC or TC.In the end, believe in yourself. Practice a lot and be confident of your ability. Most importantly, drink a lot of fluids! (Not just before the exam though - your washroom time is counted as the exam time except for breaks)Have a blast with the exam! All the best!







The Graduate Record Examination (GRE) is used by schools in most English speaking countries for admission into the Graduate program. It assesses the verbal, quantitative and writing skills of the student.To successfully crack the GRE, knowing the pattern and preparing well is the only solution. So here are some tips to help you.1. Build your mental staminaThe GRE is 3 hours and 45 minutes long. You have 1 minute between sections and a 10 minute break after three sections. In long tests like these, it is very likely that by the middle of the test your concentration will begin to flag and the one minute between sections gives you barely enough time to catch your breath.So it is important to develop your endurance with sufficient preparation beforehand. Usually you begin practice with blocks of questions in the same category. It is easy to get caught up in it, but mastering concepts is only half the battle.Once you reach a level of comfort with the different sections individually, the next step will be to take full length practice tests. Schedule them in regular intervals over the last 2 weeks before the exam and identify the areas which take up most of your time. These are the areas which will probably tire you out the most. Monitor the time closely and work on improving your speed.2. Do not underestimate the difficulty of QuantThe GRE is designed specifically to differ from what you learnt in college. Even if the syllabus for Quant takes you back to high school with memories of the amazing grades you scored, it is going to be a little more complicated than that to score in GRE. It focuses on testing the reasoning ability of the student. So most of the questions are based on a simple logic with a twist in it, making it a brain teaser. Understanding these subtle nuances is often the solution to most problems.Attempting to solve a problem with only concepts and procedure can be both confusing and time consuming. A far more efficient approach would be to figure out a pattern in the trick questions and create a strategy which can be used for them.3. Learn the context in which words are used, not just the meaningsA common mistake made by students is spending time trying to learn by heart a list of words within a limited time frame. While the words are important to answering sentence completion questions the whole point of the questions is to test the vocabulary of the student. So knowing the meaning of the words will be useless without knowing the context in which they are used.Using examples to learn the words can be advantageous. When learning with examples picturing the word in your mind becomes easy. This relates the word to a situation which in turn makes it easier to remember. This will also teach you the context in which the word is usually used.For example, a commonly misused word is literally.Literally means without exaggeration or in strict sense of the word.So when you say “It is literally raining cats and dogs.” unless you really saw cats and dogs drop from the sky, you are using the word ‘literally’ in the wrong sense.A more fitting word in this sentence would be ‘figuratively’.4. Prepare well for Analytical Writing Assessment to avoid wasting energyAnalytical Writing Assessment allows schools to evaluate the writing skills of the applicant. Even if in comparison with the other sections AWA is relatively less significant, it can take up a considerable amount of your time and energy if you go unprepared.Before the exam, prepare a format outlining the structure of the 2 essays. Practice writing a few essays using this format. This way you know the kind of points you will need for the essay. It will allow you to focus your thoughts in terms of the content you plan to put in the essay.5. Choose your study material carefullyMany students when preparing choose one book and stick to it. While there are many great books in the market, you have not mastered GRE if you finish one of them. Even if you start with one book, use other material as well to supplement it.The other problem is that with the introduction of the web and smart phone, the preparation material available to you is abundant. It is easy to lose yourself trying to do everything. So instead choose your material and prepare. Start simple, it will help you understand the concepts and once you have got a hang of it, work your way up to more advanced material. Do not try to do everything at the same time. In the end you will not have covered much.A relevant option would be to take the best online coaching class which provides a complete package right from basics to admissions in B-schools wherein you can avoid hassle of travelling as well.Start by taking a Free GRE online courseSource: 5 Things You Should Know When Preparing for GRE







Grishma Jena's answer to What is the easiest way to score 310 marks on the GRE within the duration of just 20/25 days and with minimal efforts?







GRE is a very important exam to continue your master’s education, thus each one needs to dedicate ample of time, minimum of 3 months, to start preparing for the exam. Preparation is a key ingredient in order to fulfill your dream of being admitted in USA Colleges/universities.Here is a schedule guide in Mastering Words for you:If I may suggest, identifying the SMART objective of your GRE preparation would be pretty useful. (You can actually create your own timeline for this)S - Specific: Your end-goal should be stated, for example: Be confident when taking the GRE exam because I have prepared very well, studied every topic and even had practice tests to enhance more my skills. It should include the “W” questions: Who? What? Where? When? Which? and Why?M - Measurable: A proper schedule should be created and maintained. Establish a concrete number - how many number of words would you like to master? How many weeks would you like to spend for each GRE section? How will I determine if I have accomplished it?A - Achievable: A schedule with defined time and activity is something needed for preparation. Make sure that the words you wanted to master and the time you want to prepare would be achievable. Also, practice as many mock test as possible to avoid cram during exam.R - Realistic: Provide each list of words a realistic time to finish. Let’s say a list of 10 words can be mastered in 3 days or maybe a week. That includes reviewing it through games/the help of vocab app. I suggest you use Preped Vocab - for free. (But that depends on you)T - Time-based: Schedule, schedule, schedule. :)For more help, we have asked a couple of GRE tutors and authors with the following questions. You may click on the following to see the video interview and hear them out.What Is The Best Approach In Preparing For The GRE?How To Avoid Cram While Preparing For GRE ExamHow To Get Used To Stress and Time Pressure? (Quantitative Section)Helpful Tips For Anyone Interested In Taking The GREAre Practice Tests Harder Than The Actual Test For GMAT or GRE?Bonus: The Best Strategies for Recall (Vocabulary Section)







This is going to sound silly, but the best way to get a good score is to believe in yourself. Once you truly believe in yourself, you’ll be excited for the test because you know that you’ll be able to do well. Once you’re excited for the test, you’ll be studying on New Year’s Eve like I did (wish I was joking, but read on to see that I’m not…).I have a long sordid history with standardized tests. When I was in elementary school, I was never selected for the Gifted & Talented Program because my scores on the standardized test were too low. I tried 3–4 times and never got in.Then I took the SAT in 8th grade to check one more time if I was gifted. Alas, I was still not. I didn’t do terribly, but it was dangerously close to that, especially given what others expected me to get.I then took the SAT for the first time in 11th grade. I thought I was studying hard, but I just wasn’t into it. I wanted to prove I was smart by just going in there and blowing the test away. I did not blow the test away. Again, I did fine, but my confidence in myself definitely wavered.I proceeded to take the SAT three more times my junior year. I would do marginally better each time, and when combining my sub-scores from different test administrations I did decently in the end, but it was nothing to write home about. (Also, please do not take the SAT as many times as I did. It’s not helpful to your overall application and colleges aren’t impressed if you spend all of the Saturdays of your junior year sitting in a stuffy classroom taking tests.)Fast forward 4 years to my junior year of college, when I started to prepare for the GMAT. At this point, my level of belief in myself had totally transformed. I had set a goal of getting a 4.0 GPA three years prior, and I was still on track to do so. I now actually believed in myself. This made the studying fun. I knew for every hour I put in, and every mistake I made, I was actually getting better. I studied for a solid amount of time over about 2 months. I came back with a score that, at the time, I was quite excited about (I may have called my mom crying right when the test was finished and I got my score…): a 740, which was 97th percentile at the time.Fast forward 3 more years, and now with difficult grad school and some jobs under my belt, I truly believed in myself. Better yet, the new GRE had just come out and I was sooo excited about it because I immediately sensed that it was a “beatable” test.I set out to studying like an Olympic athlete. I was studying for hours a day because, at this point, I felt that a perfect score was possible. I studied on Christmas Day. I studied a few hours before I went out on New Year’s Eve. While I was out on New Year’s Eve, I was just a little excited to get back home and put in another hour. Again, it was the belief in myself that translated into the excitement and hard work. Each time I sat down to study, I had the feeling in my stomach that you have when you’re riding a roller coaster - pure excitement because I was so excited by the possibility of getting a perfect score.As you’ll see in my profile, while I did not quite get a perfect score, I did get a perfect score on two of three sections (writing and verbal). This time I didn’t call my mom crying, though, because I believed in myself the entire time and knew it was possible with enough dedicated effort.I can’t reiterate enough that this belief in yourself is critical. It’s not about being a genius or even about being very smart. It’s about putting in more study time than the next person. Some people are gifted with the ability to walk in to a test and answer everything with ease. I am not one of those people. You may not be one of those people either, but I can assure you that if you are excited enough about the test, you will get a higher score than you could ever imagine.







Start early.You'll do yourself a world of favour. First of all, start with giving a mock test. CATKing Free Mock is the best one to start off with.It boosts up your confidence as a beginner and it's just the ideal GRE syllabus.Identify your weaknesses and strengths. GRE has two parts - Verbal and Quantitative. Most people find DI - part of quant- to be a little tough. It requires a lot of practice to get used to. For the Verbal part, a lot depends on how habituated you are to reading. If you've been reading newspaper articles and books since you were young, a little more effort would see you through. For others, instead of trying to memorise words, try to understand the word root method.That's why I emphasize a lot on Norman Lewis - Word Power Made Easy because it helps you build this skill.rahul catking norman lewisWhen trying to understand the meaning of a new word, follow up with its synonyms as well. This helps you grow your vocabulary really fast. Synonyms and antonyms are quite useful in the actual exam. The quant asked in the exam has really basic concepts. You should learn to read between the lines and try to grasp the generic form of it. Go back to your 10th grade books. They contain quite a lot of useful information. Keep giving mocks on a regular basis to acclimatise yourself to the exam giving environment. 4-5 days before the final exam, give PowerPrep I. This would be quite close to the real GRE. Devise a strategy for the final exam. You should decide when to take a break if need be. On exam day, be prepared with all your documents needed for the exam. Make sure you double check before you leave. Be happy and in a positive frame of mind. It really helps.Here are a few of my Verbal Ability Lectures for GRE prep which would help you boost your scores.CAT Verbal ability lectures (GRE /GMAT/ BankPO ) - YouTubeAll the best!







WHAT IS GRE?The Graduate Record Examination, or GRE, is an important step in the graduate school or business school application process. The GRE is a multiple-choice, computer-based, standardized exam that is often required for admission to graduate programs and graduate business programs (MBA) globally.The GRE is developed and administered by testmaker ETS to provide graduate and business schools with common measures for comparing applicants’ qualifications and preparedness for graduate-level academic work. Graduate school and business school admissions committees look at your GRE score, along with your academic record and supporting materials, to assess your readiness for the rigors of graduate academic study.Your aspirations for higher studies abroad and achieving your goals is really appreciable. You did the right thing by writing GRE exam. For pursuing MS abroad especially USA, you need to appear for GRE which you have done. However, there is no need to worry. We will guide you as to what you need to do next inorder to pursue your MS degree course abroad.Admission in the universities abroad are mainly done on the basis of scores of two exams- GRE and TOEFL. SO you need to write the TOEFL exam which comprises questions from English. Having a good score in GRE and TOEFL will definitely help you in getting admission in the top universities of the world. After getting the scores of GRE and TOEFL, you need to choose 4-5 universities in each country where you want to pursue your MS course and apply in them online and it should be as per your GRE and TOEFL scores. Merely going for the best university with less scores will definitely result in a waste of time. You need to apply with a strong statement of purpose which will depict your interest in pursuing the course in the concerned university. This is an important aspect of application as most of the universities check this statement of purpose seriously.After getting confirmation of your selection,you need to select one university where you want to join. Then you need to apply for student VISA for pursuing your MS degree course. You need to approach the Visa Interview with all the necessary documents like call letters,score sheets, academic certificates,etc.







Short answer: Want to pursue your Master’s abroad or specifically in the US? The GRE exam will help you do this. GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination.Long answer: It is a standardized test that is generally required by universities in the US and certain other universities across the globe. What is a standardized test, you ask? A standardized test is any test which requires all test-takers to a) answer the same questions or questions from a common bank of questions in the same manner and b) that is scored or evaluated in the same manner. This ensures that all test-takers, objectively, have an equal shot at success and also allows for the comparison of the relative performance of an individual.Now let’s cover the rest of the basics. The GRE exam can be divided broadly into two categories:The Quantitative Reasoning SectionThe Verbal Reasoning Section - Both assessed on a scale of 130-170.There is a third, Analytical Writing Section that (as the name suggests) aims to measure your ability to construct and articulate complex ideas and arguments and support them. This section is of particular importance to PhD aspirants.The test can be taken throughout the year AND the scores you receive are valid for FIVE years after you take the exam. This is good news for those who aren’t sure when they want to start studying or those whose original plans get derailed.If and when you decide to take the GRE exam, you’re going to want to score as high as you can, right? The good news is, it’s not as hard as you might think.Good luck to you!







What is GRE?The Graduate Record Examinations (GRE) is a 3 and half hours standardized test that is an admissions requirement for most graduate schools in the United States. The GRE is owned and administered by Educational Testing Service (ETS). The test was established in 1936 by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching.What is the Skills Tested in GRE?Analytical Writing Assessment (AWA)Quantitative ReasoningVerbal ReasoningGRE Scoring?GRE is evaluated out of a score of 340. That’s, 170 for Quantitative Reasoning and 170 for Verbal Reasoning. The minimum score that one can get is 260 out of 340. AWA is evaluated out of a scale of 0 to 6 with increment of 0.5 (That means that a student for example can get 4.5 out of a scale of 6).NOTE: GRE SCORES ARE VALID FOR 5 YEARS.WHO ACCEPTS GRE?Business schools worldwide accept GRE scores for their MBA, specialized master's and other doctoral business programs, including many top-ranked programs.Law schools, including top-ranked schools, are now accepting GREList of important steps after the GRE exam:1. Appear for TOEFL or IELTS:TOEFL / IELTS is an important criterion for withholding your admission process. Basically, TOEFL OR IELTS are tests of your English skills. Their role comes into play at the time of Visa and during your Teaching Assistant-ship (TA). But it is always better that you are done with all the exams before applying to the universities.Ideal Time: September-October2. Decide Course and University:This is probably the most important and the most hectic time you will go through. You should choose a course purely based on your interest. Usually, students opt for a course based on their undergrad stream, although you can apply to any other different course. The only important part is that you should be able to justify to yourself why you want a course different from your undergrad stream, perhaps in your SOP.Work should begin on deiding a course and a university around September third week, earlier the better.The next step after GRE is to arrange documents. This is, as usual, tedious and boring. You have to run here and there, from the office on the first floor to the HOD on the 4th floor, each will keep dumping the work on the other. It isn’t so easy to obtain transcripts, LORs, attested mark sheets and Bank Statements. As said before, earlier you engage in this work lesser will be the problems.Below is a brief explanation on how and when you should arrange these documents:3. Letters of Recommendation:As soon as the final year begins (7th semester), start talking to the respective professors who will give you a recommendation. Honestly, it isn’t that simple to get a recommendation unless you have an excellent rapport with the teacher. It is a long process as you have to make a lot of rough drafts and eventually ready the final document.It is better that work should begin on this the very first day and the final draft should be ready by October last week to avoid last minute hassles.NOTE: There is no need to make a hard-copy for the LOR as all the universities accept it online unless the specific university asks for one.4. Transcripts:A transcript is an official document which comprises all your marks in detail (Semester-wise, subject-wise breakups, term work & viva marks) in a single sheet and is issued by your college. You have to make frequent visits to your college office for getting the sample transcript, entering the complete details of all the subjects starting from semester 1 till the current semester, approving it, getting it stamped and then sealing it.Number of copies required are around 15.5. Bank StatementFrankly speaking, arranging this document isn’t very difficult. Firstly, you need to know how much are you willing to, or in other words, how much can you spend for the next two years in USA (roughly around USD 55,000). Talk to your bank manager and get attested copies of the bank statement which is a proof of your financial solvency.So, once your finances are in place and you've had multiple meetings with your bank manager and decided the amount with or without loan, final papers should be ready by November first week but it is advisable that you start approaching the bank early in October.Number of copies required are generally 15.6. AffidavitAn affidavit is similar to the bank statement, just that it is an official document issued by the Government and it states who will be financing your education. You can make an affidavit by simply going to the court and telling the lawyer the exact details to fill in.Preparing this document doesn't take more than a day once you know who is ready to sponsor you and the exact amount. Tentative time is around November first week.Number of copies required are generally 15.Important: Make sure that the bank statement and affidavit amounts are the same.7. Statement Of PurposeThe heart of your application process. This is the only document which is supposedly compulsory. Start making your SOP around October first week as you have to make a lot of rough drafts for a week or 10 days. Get a few opinions from your seniors (to see whether you have written all the data properly) and an English expert (for the language and the grammar).Suggestion: Although you may have secured a good GRE score, try to keep the language simple and make sure you focus more on the content rather than flaunting your knowledge of GRE words.Note: Hard-copies aren’t required by the universities. They have around 500 Kb size to upload the soft-copy, which is quite enough.8. ResumeIt is a document highlighting your achievements. It usually consists of your academic achievements, GRE and TOEFL scores, Co-curricular and extracurricular activities, explanation of your academic projects and personal details.A good time to engage in making a Resume would be mid October.NOTE: SIGN Consulting has created a mark for IELTS And GRE Coaching. The courses offered are rigorous and each & every student gets individual attention. Please feel free to contact us for any queries.Vijay,Alumnus of IIT Madras and IIM KozhikodeChief Faculty, SIGN Consulting [An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative]training@signconsulting.comTraining and Consulting - SIGN (An IIT & IIM Alumnus Initiative) [Corporate Training |Coaching GRE | GMAT | IELTS | TOEFL | CAT | Bank Exams | CRT







GRE stands for "Graduate Record Examination". It's a standardized test that is required for admission at most graduate schools in the US. It is divided in three parts: Verbal, Quantitative and Analytical writing. The verbal section tests reading comprehension and vocabulary. Questions are of the type "what two sentences have the same meaning ?" or "fill in the blank with the correct word to complete the sentence". Scores for this section range from 130 to 170. Normally this test is computer-based and the choice of questions and their order will change based on the performance of the participant, thus no two persons will pass the same exact test. The tricky part of this test is that the vocabulary is very formal, so participants will often study long list of words and their definition to prepare for the test. The Quantitative section is mostly basic high school math, such as statistics, mental calculations, geometry and reasoning. Again, this test is scored from 130 to 170 points and is computer based. The tricky part of this test is that most science  majors haven't done math at this very elementary level in a long time, so they don't remember the small tricks to solve these problems (time is a big constraint here). The tricky part for non-science majors is that they haven't done math in a long time so they need to relearn some of the material. The Analytical writing part is made of two essays that the participants has to write in 30 minutes each, based on a question or arguments given in the exam. The texts are then scored from 1 to 6 by two judges. The tricky part of this section is that you can't prepare in advance for the essay questions, so you have very limited time to put together a good series of arguments. You also cannot use any dictionary or other resources to check your spelling, grammar, or just facts that you want to include in your essays. However, you are still evaluated on proper spelling, proper grammar and syntax, etc. The GREs are given by a company called ETS (Educational Testing Services), so depending where you live, you will have to go to one of their center and take the test, usually on one of their computer, but some times on paper if you live in a remote area. Taking the test cost $195 US or more, depending on the location and the different promotional offers. Your test results can then be sent directly to the universities you want to apply to. There are also "subject GREs" for specific topics, like physics, biology or English literature. Some departments in the US will require one of those subject tests for admission in addition of the general GRE (described above), thus you need to also take this specific test. This is a different process, different registration dates, tests are paper based instead of computer based, etc. It's also an additional cost. A typical timeline for the GRE will be:Summer : Study for the GRELate summer, early Fall : Take the GRE exam and send your results to universitiesLate Fall and beginning of Winter: application deadline for most graduate programsSpring: Receive admission lettersFall: First semester of graduate school. If you want the possibility to retake the GRE (because you had a bad score the first time), then plan on studying during the Winter, passing the test a first time in the Spring, re-studying in the summer, re-taking the test in the Fall.







GRE stands for Graduate Record Examination conducted by ETS.This exam is basically for graduate studies in few countries especially US.This exam consists of two sections each of QUANTITATIVE SECTION, VERBAL SECTION, an ANALYTICAL WRITING, EXPERIMENTAL SECTION (Compulsory) and a RESEARCH SECTION (Optional).No negative marks.About the exam :                GRE has a unique feature i.e., it is SECTIONAL WISE ADAPTIVE.It means that if your first section of Quant went very well then the next section of Quant will be very difficult(Difficulty of the first section will be the same for everyone). Same is the case in the Verbal section.But the points will be given keeping this in mind. For EX: in QuantCase 1: A person gets 17 in the first section, the second section goes harder    and let's assume that he gets 8 in the next section. He gets a total of 25 right.(Does not mean he gets 130+25=155/170).Case 2: A person scores 8 in the first section, the second section becomes easier and let's assume he gets 17 right in the next section. He also gets a total of 25 right.Although both the above students have scored 25 right out of 40 in Quant.This does not mean both of them scores the same points out of 170, indeed the student in Case 1 who scored more in the first section gets more points.1. Quantitative Section :    There are two sections of this, which basically contains of simple high     school math. Number of questions in each section is 20 and the time limit is 35 min. The score ranges from a minimum of 130 to a maximum of 170 with 1 point increment.2. Verbal Section :    There are again two sections in which there are 20 questions each and time limit of 30 min.The score again ranges from 130 - 170 with one point increment.3. Experimental section :    This is another wonderful feature of GRE wherein you get an additional section of either Quant or Verbal. This section is not evaluated.The twist here is we donot know which section comes first(after Analytical AWA).It might be Quant/Verbal/Experimental. So giving care to each and every section is very important.4. Analytical Writing(AWA) :     This again contains two questions each of 30 min. One is an ARGUMENT writing and another is ISSUE writing.PS: This above data is as of 2015 and might change in the future.







The GRE (administered by ETS -- ETS Home) is the general test required for entry into most US grad schools. It's pretty much the SAT for grad school. If you're applying to any masters or PhD programs in the US, then you'll most likely need to take this test. The test consists of 3 different subjects: math, verbal, and an essay portion. You'll have 2 math sections (each 20 questions and 35 minutes), 2 verbal sections (each 20 questions and 30 minutes), 2 essays (each 30 minutes), and one experimental section. The experimental section can be either math or verbal, and ETS uses this portion of the exam for research. How you do on this section does not affect your score. You can read more about the basics of the exam here: About the GRE revised General Test and here: Introduction to the GRE.







